---
title: "1 Maccabees - Chapter 2"
scripture: "1-maccabees"
chapter: 2
---

**1** In those days Mattathias the son of John, son of Simeon, a priest of the sons of Joarib, moved from Jerusalem and settled in Modein.

**2** He had five sons, John surnamed Gaddi,

**3** Simon called Thassi,

**4** Judas called Maccabeus,

**5** Eleazar called Avaran, and Jonathan called Apphus.

**6** He saw the blasphemies being committed in Judah and Jerusalem,

**7** and said, "Alas! Why was I born to see this, the ruin of my people, the ruin of the holy city, and to dwell there when it was given over to the enemy, the sanctuary given over to aliens?

**8** Her temple has become like a man without honor;

**9** her glorious vessels have been carried into captivity. Her babes have been killed in her streets, her youths by the sword of the foe.

**10** What nation has not inherited her palaces and has not seized her spoils?

**11** All her adornment has been taken away; no longer free, she has become a slave.

**12** And behold, our holy place, our beauty, and our glory have been laid waste; the Gentiles have profaned it.

**13** Why should we live any longer?"

**14** And Mattathias and his sons rent their clothes, put on sackcloth, and mourned greatly.

**15** Then the king's officers who were enforcing the apostasy came to the city of Modein to make them offer sacrifice.

**16** Many from Israel came to them; and Mattathias and his sons were assembled.

**17** Then the king's officers spoke to Mattathias as follows: "You are a leader, honored and great in this city, and supported by sons and brothers.

**18** Now be the first to come and do what the king commands, as all the Gentiles and the men of Judah and those that are left in Jerusalem have done. Then you and your sons will be numbered among the friends of the king, and you and your sons will be honored with silver and gold and many gifts."

**19** But Mattathias answered and said in a loud voice: "Even if all the nations that live under the rule of the king obey him, and have chosen to do his commandments, departing each one from the religion of his fathers,

**20** yet I and my sons and my brothers will live by the covenant of our fathers.

**21** Far be it from us to desert the law and the ordinances.

**22** We will not obey the king's words by turning aside from our religion to the right hand or to the left."

**23** When he had finished speaking these words, a Jew came forward in the sight of all to offer sacrifice upon the altar in Modein, according to the king's command.

**24** When Mattathias saw it, he burned with zeal and his heart was stirred. He gave vent to righteous anger; he ran and killed him upon the altar.

**25** At the same time he killed the king's officer who was forcing them to sacrifice, and he tore down the altar.

**26** Thus he burned with zeal for the law, as Phinehas did against Zimri the son of Salu.

**27** Then Mattathias cried out in the city with a loud voice, saying: "Let every one who is zealous for the law and supports the covenant come out with me!"

**28** And he and his sons fled to the hills and left all that they had in the city.

**29** Then many who were seeking righteousness and justice went down to the wilderness to dwell there,

**30** they, their sons, their wives, and their cattle, because evils pressed heavily upon them.

**31** And it was reported to the king's officers, and to the troops in Jerusalem the city of David, that men who had rejected the king's command had gone down to the hiding places in the wilderness.

**32** Many pursued them, and overtook them; they encamped opposite them and prepared for battle against them on the sabbath day.

**33** And they said to them, "Enough of this! Come out and do what the king commands, and you will live."

**34** But they said, "We will not come out, nor will we do what the king commands and so profane the sabbath day."

**35** Then the enemy hastened to attack them.

**36** But they did not answer them or hurl a stone at them or block up their hiding places,

**37** for they said, "Let us all die in our innocence; heaven and earth testify for us that you are killing us unjustly."

**38** So they attacked them on the sabbath, and they died, with their wives and children and cattle, to the number of a thousand persons.

**39** When Mattathias and his friends learned of it, they mourned for them deeply.

**40** And each said to his neighbor: "If we all do as our brethren have done and refuse to fight with the Gentiles for our lives and our ordinances, they will quickly destroy us from the earth."

**41** So they made this decision that day: "Let us fight against every man who comes to attack us on the sabbath day; let us not all die as our brethren died in their hiding places."

**42** Then there united with them a company of Hasideans, mighty warriors of Israel, every one who offered himself willingly for the law.

**43** And all who became fugitives to escape their troubles joined them and reinforced them.

**44** They organized an army, and struck down sinners in their anger and lawless men in their wrath; the survivors fled to the Gentiles for safety.

**45** And Mattathias and his friends went about and tore down the altars;

**46** they forcibly circumcised all the uncircumcised boys that they found within the borders of Israel.

**47** They hunted down the arrogant men, and the work prospered in their hands.

**48** They rescued the law out of the hands of the Gentiles and kings, and they never let the sinner gain the upper hand.

**49** Now the days drew near for Mattathias to die, and he said to his sons: "Arrogance and reproach have now become strong; it is a time of ruin and furious anger.

**50** Now, my children, show zeal for the law, and give your lives for the covenant of our fathers.

**51** Remember the deeds of the fathers, which they did in their generations; and receive great honor and an everlasting name.

**52** Was not Abraham found faithful when tested, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness?

**53** Joseph in the time of his distress kept the commandment, and became lord of Egypt.

**54** Phinehas our father, because he was deeply zealous, received the covenant of everlasting priesthood.

**55** Joshua, because he fulfilled the command, became a judge in Israel.

**56** Caleb, because he testified in the assembly, received an inheritance in the land.

**57** David, because he was merciful, inherited the throne of the kingdom for ever.

**58** Elijah because of great zeal for the law was taken up into heaven.

**59** Hananiah, Azariah, and Mishael believed and were saved from the flame.

**60** Daniel because of his innocence was delivered from the mouth of the lions.

**61** And so observe, from generation to generation, that none who put their trust in him will lack strength.

**62** Do not fear the words of a sinner, for his splendor will turn into dung and worms.

**63** Today he will be exalted, but tomorrow he will not be found, because he has returned to the dust, and his plans will perish.

**64** My children, be courageous and grow strong in the law, for by it you will gain honor.

**65** Now behold, I know that Simeon your brother is wise in counsel; always listen to him; he shall be your father.

**66** Judas Maccabeus has been a mighty warrior from his youth; he shall command the army for you and fight the battle against the peoples.

**67** You shall rally about you all who observe the law, and avenge the wrong done to your people.

**68** Pay back the Gentiles in full, and heed what the law commands."

**69** Then he blessed them, and was gathered to his fathers.

**70** He died in the one hundred and forty-sixth year and was buried in the tomb of his fathers at Modein. And all Israel mourned for him with great lamentation.
