---
title: "Sirach - Chapter 7"
scripture: "sirach"
chapter: 7
---

**1** Do no evil, so shall no harm come unto thee.

**2** Depart from the unjust, and iniquity shall turn away from thee.

**3** My son, sow not upon the furrows of unrighteousness, and thou shalt not reap them sevenfold.

**4** Seek not of the Lord pre-eminence, neither of the king the seat of honour.

**5** Justify not thyself before the Lord; and boast not of thy wisdom before the king.

**6** Seek not to be judge, being not able to take away iniquity; lest at any time thou fear the person of the mighty, and lay a stumblingblock in the way of thy uprightness.

**7** Offend not against the multitude of a city, and then thou shalt not cast thyself down among the people.

**8** Bind not one sin upon another; for in one thou shalt not be unpunished.

**9** Say not, God will look upon the multitude of my oblations, and when I offer to the most high God, he will accept it.

**10** Be not fainthearted when thou makest thy prayer, and neglect not to give alms.

**11** Laugh no man to scorn in the bitterness of his soul: for there is one which humbleth and exalteth.

**12** Devise not a lie against thy brother; neither do the like to thy friend.

**13** Use not to make any manner of lie: for the custom thereof is not good.

**14** Use not many words in a multitude of elders, and make not much babbling when thou prayest.

**15** Hate not laborious work, neither husbandry, which the most High hath ordained.

**16** Number not thyself among the multitude of sinners, but remember that wrath will not tarry long.

**17** Humble thyself greatly: for the vengeance of the ungodly is fire and worms.

**18** Change not a friend for any good by no means; neither a faithful brother for the gold of Ophir.

**19** Forego not a wise and good woman: for her grace is above gold.

**20** Whereas thy servant worketh truly, entreat him not evil, nor the hireling that bestoweth himself wholly for thee.

**21** Let thy soul love a good servant, and defraud him not of liberty.
