---
title: "Coffin Texts - Chapter 2"
scripture: "coffin-texts"
chapter: 2
---

**1** I am the outflow of Osiris, the water that is in him. I have come forth from the water. I have grown from it. I have rotted in it. I have fallen on my side in it, in accordance with the will of the Great Outflower.

**2** Spell for becoming Shu. I am Shu, whom Atum created on the day that he himself came into being. I was not fashioned in a womb, I was not knit together in the egg. I was not conceived by conception. My father Atum sneezed me forth with the breath of his nostrils, together with my sister Tefnut.

**3** She it was who went forth behind me, while I was enclosed in the breath of the Great One. The Eye of Atum sought me and my sister Tefnut, after an age when they had been separated from him, out of Nun, out of inertness.

**4** I am Shu, father of the gods. Atum once sent his Sole Eye seeking me and my sister Tefnut. I made light of the darkness for it. It found me as an immortal.

**5** I am he who exhaled the winds, who made the light after the darkness. The gate of the horizon was opened for me, and the gods went forth from it, rejoicing to see me.

**6** I am he who made the sky for the ba of every god, who set the limit at the pillars of Shu, who raised up the sky and placed it upon its four supports. I am he who made that which the gods rejoice in.

**7** O you eight Chaos-gods, I am Shu who conceived you. Now I am here in the place of my father Atum. I have come from the first primordial mound. I have waded the waters of the great flood. I have emerged upon the bank.

**8** I am he who knits on his head and raises up the fallen one. I am he who returns the Sacred Eye after it was injured. I drove back the aggressor with the flame of the Eye. I am its protector, I am its guardian. It was commanded to me by the Lord of All.
