---
title: "Didache - Chapter 11"
scripture: "didache"
chapter: 11
---

**1** Whosoever, therefore, cometh and teacheth you all these things that have been said before, receive him.

**2** But if the teacher himself turn and teach another doctrine to the destruction of this, hear him not; but if he teach so as to increase righteousness and the knowledge of the Lord, receive him as the Lord.

**3** But concerning the apostles and prophets, according to the decree of the Gospel, thus do.

**4** Let every apostle that cometh to you be received as the Lord.

**5** But he shall not remain except one day; but if there be need, also the next; but if he remain three days, he is a false prophet.

**6** And when the apostle goeth away, let him take nothing but bread until he lodgeth; but if he ask money, he is a false prophet.

**7** And every prophet that speaketh in the Spirit ye shall neither try nor judge; for every sin shall be forgiven, but this sin shall not be forgiven.

**8** But not every one that speaketh in the Spirit is a prophet; but only if he hold the ways of the Lord. Therefore from their ways shall the false prophet and the prophet be known.

**9** And every prophet who ordereth a meal in the Spirit eateth not from it, except indeed he be a false prophet;

**10** And every prophet who teacheth the truth, if he do not what he teacheth, is a false prophet.

**11** And every prophet, proved true, working unto the mystery of the Church in the world, yet not teaching others to do what he himself doeth, shall not be judged among you, for with God he hath his judgment; for so did also the ancient prophets.

**12** But whoever saith in the Spirit, Give me money, or something else, ye shall not listen to him; but if he saith to you to give for others' sake who are in need, let no one judge him.
