---
title: "Popol Vuh - Chapter 9"
scripture: "popol-vuh"
chapter: 9
---

**1** And this is when the making, the modeling of the first real humans took place. It was staples, yellow corn and white corn alone, that made up their flesh. Food was their flesh, water was their blood. These became the first four human mothers and fathers.

**2** These are the names of the first people who were made and modeled: Jaguar Quitze, the first; Jaguar Night, the second; Mahucutah, the third; and True Jaguar, the fourth.

**3** And these are the names of our first mother-fathers. They were simply made and modeled, it is said; they had no mother and no father. They were simply and solely made by the Maker, Modeler, Bearer, Begetter, Sovereign Plumed Serpent.

**4** They were good people, handsome, with looks of the male kind. Thoughts came into existence and they gazed; their vision came all at once. Perfectly they knew everything under the sky, whenever they looked. Their sight passed through trees, through rocks, through lakes, through seas, through mountains, through plains.

**5** But the Maker, Modeler said: "What our works and designs have said is no good. They know everything, great and small. What can we do with them now? Their vision should at most reach nearby things, and they should see only a little of the face of the earth." So the Heart of Sky blew mist into their eyes, and their vision was dimmed. And this was the loss of the means of understanding, along with the means of knowing everything.
