---
title: "4QMMT Section 6"
scripture: "4qmmt"
chapter: 6
---

**C:1** And you know that we have separated ourselves from the multitude of the people and from all their impurity and from being party to these matters and from participating with them in these things.

**C:4** And you know that no treachery or deceit or evil can be found in our hand, since we give thought to these matters.

**C:7** And indeed we have written to you so that you may study the Book of Moses and the Books of the Prophets and the writings of David and the events of ages past.

**C:10** And in the Book it is written that you will turn from the way at the end of days, and the blessings and the curses will come upon you. And you will take it to your heart, and return to Him with all your heart and with all your soul, at the end of time, so that you may live.

**C:13** And it is written in the Book of Moses and in the Books of the Prophets that the blessings will come upon you in the last days.

**C:17** Now, we have written to you some of the works of the Law, those which we determined would be beneficial for you and your people, because we have seen that you possess insight and knowledge of the Law.

**C:20** Understand all these things and beseech Him to set your counsel straight and so keep you away from evil thoughts and the counsel of Belial.

**C:23** Then you shall rejoice at the end of time when you find the essence of our words to be true. And it will be reckoned to you as righteousness, in that you have done what is right and good before Him, to your own benefit and to that of Israel.
