---
title: "Nihon Shoki - Chapter 2"
scripture: "nihon-shoki"
chapter: 2
---

**1** Izanagi no Mikoto and Izanami no Mikoto stood on the floating bridge of Heaven, and held counsel together, saying: "Is there not a country beneath?"

**2** Thereupon they thrust down the jewel-spear of Heaven, and groping about therewith found the ocean. The brine which dripped from the point of the spear coagulated and became an island. This is the island of Onogoro.

**3** The two deities thereupon descended and dwelt in this island. Accordingly they wished to become husband and wife together, and to produce countries.

**4** So they made Onogoro-jima the pillar of the centre of the land.

**5** Now the male deity turning by the left, and the female deity by the right, they went round the pillar of the land separately. When they met together on one side, the female deity spoke first and said: "How delightful! I have met with a lovely youth."

**6** The male deity was displeased, and said: "I am a man, and by right should have spoken first. How is it that on the contrary thou, a woman, shouldst have been the first to speak? This was unlucky. Let us go round again."

**7** Upon this the two deities went back, and having met anew, this time the male deity spoke first, and said: "How delightful! I have met a lovely maiden."

**8** Then he inquired of the female deity, saying: "In thy body is there aught formed?" She answered, and said: "In my body there is a place which is the source of femininity."

**9** The male deity said: "In my body again there is a place which is the source of masculinity. I wish to unite this source-place of my body to the source-place of thy body."

**10** Hereupon the male and female first became united as husband and wife.

**11** Now when the time of birth arrived, first of all the island of Ahaji was reckoned as the placenta, and their next child was the island of Oho-yamato no Toyo-aki-tsu-shima.

**12** Next they produced the island of Iyo no futa-na, and next the island of Tsukushi. Next the islands of Oki and Sado were born as twins. Next was born the island of Koshi, then the island of Oho-shima, then the island of Kibi no Ko.

**13** Hence first arose the designation of the Oho-ya-shima country.

**14** Then the islands of Tsushima, Iki, and the smaller islands in various parts were produced by the coagulation of the foam of the salt-water.
