---
title: "Nihon Shoki - Chapter 3"
scripture: "nihon-shoki"
chapter: 3
---

**1** After this, Izanagi no Mikoto and Izanami no Mikoto consulted together, saying: "We have now produced the Great-eight-island country, with the mountains, rivers, herbs, and trees. Why should we not produce someone who shall be lord of the universe?"

**2** They then together produced the Sun-Goddess, who was called Oho-hiru-me no Muchi.

**3** This child was radiant and beautiful. Her beauty shone through Heaven and Earth. Therefore the two deities rejoiced, saying: "Though our children have been numerous, none of them have been equal to this wondrous infant."

**4** She ought not to be kept long in this land, but we ought of our own accord to send her at once to Heaven, and entrust to her the affairs of Heaven.

**5** At this time Heaven and Earth were still not far separated, and therefore they sent her up to Heaven by the ladder of Heaven.

**6** They next produced the Moon-god. His radiance was next to that of the Sun in splendour. This God was to be the consort of the Sun-Goddess, and to share in her government. They therefore sent him also to Heaven.

**7** Next they produced the leech-child. Though this child had reached the age of three years, it could not stand upright. It was therefore placed in the rock-camphor-wood boat of Heaven, and abandoned to the winds.

**8** Their next child was Susa no Wo no Mikoto. This god had a fierce temper and was given to cruel acts. Moreover he made it his constant practice to weep and to wail. So he brought many of the people of the land to an untimely end. Again he caused green mountains to become withered.

**9** Therefore the two gods, his parents, addressed Susa no Wo no Mikoto, saying: "Thou art exceedingly wicked, and it is not meet that thou shouldst reign over the world. Certainly thou must depart far away to the Nether-Land." So they at length expelled him.

**10** After this Izanami no Mikoto was burnt by the child Kagu-tsuchi, the fire-god, so that she died. When she was about to die, she gave birth to the Earth-Goddess Hani-yama-hime and the Water-Goddess Midzu-ha-no-me.
