---
title: "1 Enoch Chapter 102"
scripture: "book-of-enoch"
chapter: 102
---

**1** In those days when He hath brought a grievous fire upon you, whither will ye flee, and where will ye find deliverance? And when He launches forth His Word against you, will you not be affrighted and fear?

**2** And all the luminaries shall be affrighted with great fear, and all the earth shall be affrighted and tremble and be alarmed.

**3** And all the angels shall execute their commands and shall seek to hide themselves from the presence of the Great Glory, and the children of earth shall tremble and quake; and ye sinners shall be cursed for ever, and ye shall have no peace.

**4** Fear ye not, ye souls of the righteous, and be hopeful ye that have died in righteousness.

**5** And grieve not if your soul into Sheol has descended in grief, and that in your life your body fared not according to your goodness, but wait for the day of the judgement of sinners and for the day of cursing and chastisement.

**6** And yet when ye die the sinners speak over you: As we die, so die the righteous, and what benefit do they reap for their deeds?

**7** Behold, even as we, so do they die in grief and darkness, and what have they more than we? from henceforth we are equal.

**8** And what will they receive and what will they see for ever? Behold, they too have died, and henceforth for ever shall they see no light.

**9** I tell you, ye sinners, ye are content to eat and drink, and rob and sin, and strip men naked, and acquire wealth and see good days.

**10** Have ye seen the righteous how their end falls out, that no manner of violence is found in them till their death?

**11** Nevertheless they perished and became as though they had not been, and their spirits descended into Sheol in tribulation.
