---
title: "1 Enoch Chapter 54"
scripture: "book-of-enoch"
chapter: 54
---

**1** And I looked and turned to another part of the earth, and saw there a deep valley with burning fire.

**2** And they brought the kings and the mighty, and began to cast them into this deep valley.

**3** And there mine eyes saw how they made these their instruments, iron chains of immeasurable weight.

**4** And I asked the angel of peace who went with me, saying: 'For whom are these chains being prepared?'

**5** And he said unto me: 'These are being prepared for the hosts of Azazel, so that they may take them and cast them into the abyss of complete condemnation, and they shall cover their jaws with rough stones as the Lord of Spirits commanded.

**6** And Michael, and Gabriel, and Raphael, and Phanuel shall take hold of them on that great day, and cast them on that day into the burning furnace, that the Lord of Spirits may take vengeance on them for their unrighteousness in becoming subject to Satan and leading astray those who dwell on the earth.'

**7** And in those days shall punishment come from the Lord of Spirits, and he will open all the chambers of waters which are above the heavens, and of the fountains which are beneath the earth.

**8** And all the waters shall be joined with the waters: that which is above the heavens is the masculine,

**9** and the water which is beneath the earth is the feminine. And they shall destroy all who dwell on the earth and those who dwell under the ends of the heaven.

**10** And when they have recognized their unrighteousness which they have wrought on the earth, then by these shall they perish.
