---
title: "1 Enoch Chapter 74"
scripture: "book-of-enoch"
chapter: 74
---

**1** And I saw another course, a law for her, and how according to that law she performs her monthly revolution.

**2** And all these Uriel, the holy angel who is the leader of them all, showed to me, and their positions, and I wrote down their positions as he showed them to me, and I wrote down their months as they were, and the appearance of their lights till fifteen days were accomplished.

**3** In single seventh parts she accomplishes all her light in the east, and in single seventh parts accomplishes all her darkness in the west.

**4** And in certain months she alters her settings, and in certain months she pursues her own peculiar course.

**5** In two months the moon sets with the sun: in those two middle portals the third and the fourth.

**6** She goes forth for seven days, and turns about and returns again through the portal where the sun rises, and accomplishes all her light: and she recedes from the sun, and in eight days enters the sixth portal from which the sun goes forth.

**7** And when the sun goes forth from the fourth portal she goes forth seven days, until she goes forth from the fifth and turns back again in seven days into the fourth portal and accomplishes all her light: and she recedes and enters into the first portal in eight days.

**8** And she returns again in seven days into the fourth portal from which the sun goes forth.

**9** Thus I saw their position — how the moons rose and the sun set in those days.

**10** And if five years are added together the sun has an overplus of thirty days, and all the days which accrue to it for one of those five years, when they are full, amount to 364 days.
