---
title: "1 Enoch Chapter 75"
scripture: "book-of-enoch"
chapter: 75
---

**1** And the leaders of the heads of the thousands, who are placed over the whole creation and over all the stars, have also to do with the four intercalary days, being inseparable from their office, according to the reckoning of the year, and these render service on the four days which are not reckoned in the reckoning of the year.

**2** And owing to them men go wrong therein, for those luminaries truly render service on the world-stations, one in the first portal, one in the third portal of the heaven, one in the fourth portal, and one in the sixth portal, and the exactness of the year is accomplished through its separate three hundred and sixty-four stations.

**3** For the signs and the times and the years and the days the angel Uriel showed to me, whom the Lord of glory hath set for ever over all the luminaries of the heaven, in the heaven and in the world, that they should rule on the face of the heaven and be seen on the earth, and be leaders for the day and the night.

**4** The sun, and the moon, and the stars, and all the ministering creatures which make their revolution in all the chariots of the heaven.

**5** In like manner twelve doors Uriel showed me, open in the circumference of the sun's chariot in the heaven, through which the rays of the sun break forth: and from them is warmth diffused over the earth, when they are opened at their appointed seasons.

**6** And for the winds and the spirit of the dew when they are opened, standing open in the heavens at the ends.

**7** As for the twelve portals in the heaven, at the ends of the earth, out of which go forth the sun, moon, and stars, and all the works of heaven in the east and in the west.

**8** There are many windows open to the left and right of them, and one window at its appointed season produces warmth, corresponding to those doors from which the stars come forth according as He has commanded them, and wherein they set corresponding to their number.

**9** And I saw chariots in the heaven, running in the world, above those portals in which revolve the stars that never set.
