---
title: "1 Enoch Chapter 81"
scripture: "book-of-enoch"
chapter: 81
---

**1** And he said unto me: Observe, Enoch, these heavenly tablets, and read what is written thereon, and mark every individual fact.

**2** And I observed the heavenly tablets, and read everything which was written thereon and understood everything, and read the book of all the deeds of mankind, and of all the children of flesh that shall be upon the earth to the remotest generations.

**3** And forthwith I blessed the great Lord the King of glory for ever, in that He has made all the works of the world, and I extolled the Lord because of His patience, and blessed Him because of the children of men.

**4** And after that I said: Blessed is the man who dies in righteousness and goodness, concerning whom there is no book of unrighteousness written, and against whom no day of judgement shall be found.

**5** And those seven holy ones brought me and placed me on the earth before the door of my house, and said to me: Declare everything to thy son Methuselah, and show to all thy children that no flesh is righteous in the sight of the Lord, for He is their Creator.

**6** One year we will leave thee with thy son, till thou givest thy last commands, that thou mayest teach thy children and record it for them, and testify to all thy children; and in the second year they shall take thee from their midst.

**7** Let thy heart be strong, for the good shall announce righteousness to the good; the righteous with the righteous shall rejoice, and shall offer congratulation to one another.

**8** But the sinners shall die with the sinners, and the apostate go down with the apostate.

**9** And those who practise righteousness shall die on account of the deeds of men, and be taken away on account of the doings of the godless.

**10** And in those days they ceased to speak to me, and I came to my people, blessing the Lord of the world.
