---
title: "1 Enoch Chapter 93"
scripture: "book-of-enoch"
chapter: 93
---

**1** And after that Enoch both gave and began to recount from the books. And Enoch said: Concerning the children of righteousness and concerning the elect of the world, and concerning the plant of uprightness, I will speak these things, yea, I Enoch will declare them unto you, my sons: according to that which appeared to me in the heavenly vision, and which I have known through the word of the holy angels, and have learnt from the heavenly tablets.

**2** And Enoch began to recount from the books and said: I was born the seventh in the first week, while judgement and righteousness still endured.

**3** And after me there shall arise in the second week great wickedness, and deceit shall have sprung up; and in it there shall be the first end. And in it a man shall be saved; and after it is ended unrighteousness shall grow up, and a law shall be made for the sinners.

**4** And after that in the third week at its close a man shall be elected as the plant of righteous judgement, and his posterity shall become the plant of righteousness for evermore.

**5** And after that in the fourth week, at its close, visions of the holy and righteous shall be seen, and a law for all generations and an enclosure shall be made for them.

**6** And after that in the fifth week, at its close, the house of glory and dominion shall be built for ever.

**7** And after that in the sixth week all who live in it shall be blinded, and the hearts of all of them shall godlessly forsake wisdom. And in it a man shall ascend; and at its close the house of dominion shall be burnt with fire, and the whole race of the chosen root shall be dispersed.

**8** And after that in the seventh week shall an apostate generation arise, and many shall be its deeds, and all its deeds shall be apostate.

**9** And at the close of the seventh week shall the elect righteous of the eternal plant of righteousness be selected, to receive sevenfold instruction concerning all His creation.

**10** And after that there shall be another, the eighth week, that of righteousness, and a sword shall be given to it that a righteous judgement may be executed on the oppressors, and sinners shall be delivered into the hands of the righteous.

**11** And at its close they shall acquire houses through their righteousness, and a house shall be built for the Great King in glory for evermore.

**12** And after that, in the ninth week, the righteous judgement shall be revealed to the whole world, and all the works of the godless shall vanish from all the earth, and the world shall be written down for destruction.

**13** And after this, in the tenth week in the seventh part, there shall be the great eternal judgement, in which He will execute vengeance amongst the angels.

**14** And the first heaven shall depart and pass away, and a new heaven shall appear, and all the powers of the heavens shall give sevenfold light for ever.
