---
title: "1 Enoch Chapter 96"
scripture: "book-of-enoch"
chapter: 96
---

**1** Be hopeful, ye righteous; for suddenly shall the sinners perish before you, and ye shall have lordship over them according to your desires.

**2** And in the day of the tribulation of the sinners, your children shall mount and rise as eagles, and higher than the vultures will be your nest, and ye shall ascend and enter the crevices of the earth, and the clefts of the rock for ever as coneys before the unrighteous, and the sirens shall sigh because of you — and weep.

**3** Wherefore fear not, ye that have suffered; for healing shall be your portion, and a bright light shall enlighten you, and the voice of rest ye shall hear from heaven.

**4** Woe unto you, ye sinners, for your riches make you appear like the righteous, but your hearts convict you of being sinners, and this fact shall be a testimony against you for a memorial of your evil deeds.

**5** Woe to you who devour the finest of the wheat, and drink wine in large bowls, and tread under foot the lowly with your might.

**6** Woe to you who drink water from every fountain, for suddenly shall ye be consumed and wither away, because ye have forsaken the fountain of life.

**7** Woe to you who work unrighteousness and deceit and blasphemy: it shall be a memorial against you for evil.

**8** Woe to you, ye mighty, who with might oppress the righteous; for the day of your destruction is coming. In those days many and good days shall come to the righteous — in the day of your judgement.
