---
title: "1 Enoch Chapter 97"
scripture: "book-of-enoch"
chapter: 97
---

**1** Believe, ye righteous, that the sinners will become a shame and perish in the day of unrighteousness.

**2** Be it known unto you, ye sinners, that the Most High is mindful of your destruction, and the angels of heaven rejoice over your destruction.

**3** What will ye do, ye sinners, and whither will ye flee on that day of judgement, when ye hear the voice of the prayer of the righteous?

**4** Yea, ye shall fare like unto them, against whom this word shall be a testimony: Ye have been companions of sinners.

**5** And in those days the prayer of the righteous shall reach unto the Lord, and for you the days of your judgement shall come.

**6** And all the words of your unrighteousness shall be read out before the Great Holy One, and your faces shall be covered with shame, and He will reject every work which is grounded on unrighteousness.

**7** Woe to you, ye sinners, who live on the mid ocean and on the dry land, whose remembrance is evil against you.

**8** Woe to you who acquire silver and gold in unrighteousness and say: We have become rich with riches and have possessions; and have acquired everything we have desired.

**9** And now let us do what we purposed: for we have gathered silver, and many are the husbandmen in our houses, and our granaries are brim full as with water.

**10** Yea and like water your lies shall flow away; for your riches shall not abide but speedily ascend from you; for ye have acquired it all in unrighteousness, and ye shall be given over to a great curse.
