---
title: "Sophia of Jesus Christ - Chapter 1"
scripture: "sophia-of-jesus-christ"
chapter: 1
---

**1** After he rose from the dead, his twelve disciples and seven women continued to be his followers, and went to Galilee onto the mountain called "Divination and Joy."

**2** When they gathered together and were perplexed about the underlying reality of the universe and the plan, and the holy providence, and the power of the authorities, and about everything the Savior is doing with them in the secret of the holy plan, the Savior appeared.

**3** He appeared not in his previous form but in the invisible spirit. And his likeness resembles a great angel of light. But his resemblance I must not describe, for no mortal flesh can endure it.

**4** He said to them: "Peace be to you, My peace I give you!" And they all marvelled and were afraid.

**5** The Savior laughed and said to them: "What are you thinking about? Why are you perplexed? What are you searching for?"

**6** Philip said: "For the underlying reality of the universe and the plan."

**7** The Savior said to them: "I want you to know that all men who are born from the foundation of the world until now, being dust, while they inquired about God, who he is and what he is like, have not found him.

**8** "Now the wisest among them have speculated from the ordering of the world and its movement. But their speculation has not reached the truth.

**9** "For the ordering is spoken of in three opinions by all the philosophers, and hence they do not agree. For some of them say about the world that it is directed by itself. Others, that it is providence that directs it. Others, that it is fate.

**10** "But it is none of these. Again, of the three voices I have just mentioned, none is true. For whatever is from itself is an empty life; it is self-made. Providence is foolish. And fate is an undiscerning thing." 
