---
title: "Sophia of Jesus Christ - Chapter 3"
scripture: "sophia-of-jesus-christ"
chapter: 3
---

**1** Matthew said to him: "Lord, no one can find the truth except through you. Therefore teach us the truth."

**2** The Savior said: "He Who Is is ineffable. No principle knew him, no authority, no subjection, nor any creature from the foundation of the world until now, except he alone, and anyone to whom he wants to make revelation through him who is from First Light.

**3** "From now on I am the Great Savior. For he is immortal and eternal. Now he is eternal, having no birth, for everything that has birth will perish.

**4** "He is unbegotten, having no beginning, for everyone who has a beginning has an end. Since no one rules over him, he has no name, for whoever has a name is the creation of another.

**5** "He is unnameable. He has no human form, for whoever has human form is the creation of another.

**6** "He has a semblance of his own, not like what you have seen and received, but a strange semblance that surpasses all things and is better than the universe. It looks to every side and sees itself from itself.

**7** "He is infinite, since he is incomprehensible. He is imperishable and has no likeness to anything. He is unchanging good. He is faultless. He is eternal. He is blessed. He is unknowable, while he alone knows himself.

**8** "He is immeasurable. He is untraceable. He is perfect, having no defect. He is imperishably blessed. He is called the Father of the Universe."

**9** Philip said: "Lord, how then did he appear to the perfect ones?"

**10** The Savior answered: "Before anything is visible of those that are visible, the majesty and the authority are in him, since he embraces the whole of the totalities, while nothing embraces him. For he is all mind, thought, reflecting, and rationality and power." 
