---
title: "Corpus Hermeticum - Chapter 10"
scripture: "corpus-hermeticum"
chapter: 10
---

**1** Hermes: The Mind, O Tat, is of God's very essence — if such a thing as essence of God there be — and what that is, it and it only knows precisely.

**2** The Mind, then, is not separated off from God's essentiality, but is united unto it, as light to sun.

**3** This Mind in men is God, and for this cause some of mankind are gods, and their humanity is nigh unto divinity. For the Good Daimon said: "Gods are immortal men, and men are mortal gods."

**4** But in irrational lives Mind is their nature. For where there is soul, there too is mind; just as where life is, there also is soul. But in irrational lives their soul is life devoid of mind; for Mind is the in-worker of the souls of men for good; He works on them for their own good.

**5** In lives irrational He doth co-operate with each one's nature; but in the souls of men He counteracteth them. For every soul, when it becomes embodied, is instantly depraved by pleasure and by pain.

**6** For in a compound body, just like juices, pleasure and pain seethe, and into them the soul, on entering in, is plunged.

**7** O'er whatsoever souls the Mind doth, then, preside, to these it showeth its own light, by acting counter to their prepossessions, just as a good physician doth upon the body prepossessed by sickness, pain inflict, burning or lancing it for health's sake.

**8** In just the selfsame way the Mind inflicteth pain upon the soul, to rescue it from pleasure, whence comes its every ill.

**9** The great ill of the soul is godlessness; then followeth fancy for all evil things and nothing good. So, then, Mind counteracting it, worketh good on the soul, as the physician health upon the body.

**10** But whatsoever human souls have not the Mind as helmsman, they share in the same fate as souls of lives irrational.
