---
title: "Corpus Hermeticum - Chapter 13"
scripture: "corpus-hermeticum"
chapter: 13
---

**1** Tat: In the General Sermons, father, thou didst speak in riddles most unclear, conversing on Divinity; and when thou saidst no man could e'er be saved before Rebirth, thy meaning thou didst hide.

**2** Further, when I became thy Suppliant, in Ascending up the Mountain, after thou hadst conversed with me, and when I longed to learn the Sermon on Rebirth, since this beyond all other sermons is the one I do not know — thou saidst thou wouldst transmit it me, "when I had become a stranger to the world."

**3** Wherefore I got me ready and made the thought in me a stranger to the world-illusion. And now do thou fill up the things that fall short in me with what thou saidst would give me the tradition of Rebirth, setting it forth in speech or in the secret way. I know not, O Thrice-greatest one, from out what womb Man has been born, or of what seed.

**4** Hermes: Wisdom that understands in silence. The seed is the True Good; the sower is the Will of God.

**5** Tat: Who is the sower, father? For I am altogether at a loss.

**6** Hermes: It is the Will of God, my son.

**7** Tat: And of what kind is he that is begotten, father? For I have no share of that essence in me, which doth transcend the senses. The one that is begot will be another one from God, a God's son?

**8** Hermes: All in all, out of all powers composed.

**9** Tat: Thou tellest me a riddle, father, and dost not speak as father unto son.

**10** Hermes: This Race, my son, is never taught; but when He willeth it, its memory is restored by God.

**11** Tat: Thou sayest things impossible, O father, things that are forced. And therefore I would have direct answers unto these. Am I a son estranged from my father's race?

**12** Hermes: Spare me not, my son. I am unable to transmit the matter thus. I can but tell thee this: Whene'er I see within myself the Simple Vision brought to birth out of God's mercy, I have passed through myself into a Body that can never die. And now I am not as I was before; but I am born in Mind.

**13** The way to do this is not taught, and it cannot be seen by the compound element by means of which thou seest. Yea, I have had my former composed form dismembered for me. I am no longer touched, but I have touch. I have dimension too, and yet am stranger now to them. Thou seest me with eyes, my son; but what I am thou dost not understand even with fullest strain of body and of sight.

**14** Tat: Into fierce frenzy and mind-Loss thou hast plunged me, father, for now I see myself not.

**15** Hermes: I would, my son, that thou hadst too passed through thyself, as they who dream in sleep yet sleeping not.
