---
title: "Kojiki - Chapter 1"
scripture: "kojiki"
chapter: 1
---

**1** The names of the Deities that were born in the Plain of High Heaven when the Heaven and Earth first parted were the Deity Master-of-the-August-Centre-of-Heaven, next the High-August-Producing-Wondrous-Deity, next the Divine-Producing-Wondrous-Deity. These three Deities were all Deities born alone, and hid their persons.

**2** The names of the Deities that were born next from a thing that sprouted up like unto a reed-shoot when the earth, young and like unto floating oil, drifted about medusa-like, were the Pleasant-Reed-Shoot-Prince-Elder-Deity, next the Heavenly-Eternally-Standing-Deity. These two Deities were likewise born alone, and hid their persons.

**3** The five Deities in the above list are separate Heavenly Deities.

**4** The names of the Deities that were born next were the Earthly-Eternally-Standing-Deity, next the Luxuriant-Integrating-Master-Deity. These two Deities were likewise Deities born alone, and hid their persons.

**5** The names of the Deities that were born next were the Deity-of-Mud-Earth-Lord, next his Younger Sister the Deity-of-Mud-Earth-Lady; next the Germ-Integrating-Deity, next his Younger Sister the Life-Integrating-Deity; next the Deity-of-Elder-of-the-Great-Place, next his Younger Sister the Deity-of-Elder-of-the-Great-Place-Lady; next the Deity-of-Perfect-Exterior, next his Younger Sister the Deity-Oh-Awful-Lady; next the Deity-the-Male-Who-Invites, next his Younger Sister the Deity-the-Female-Who-Invites.

**6** From the Earthly-Eternally-Standing-Deity down to the Deity-the-Female-Who-Invites in the previous list are what are termed the Seven Divine Generations.

**7** The two Deities, the Male-Who-Invites and the Female-Who-Invites, standing upon the Floating Bridge of Heaven, pushed down the jewelled spear and stirred with it, whereupon, when they had stirred the brine till it went curdle-curdle, and drew the spear up, the brine that dripped down from the end of the spear was piled up and became an island. This is the Island of Onogoro.

**8** Having descended from Heaven onto this island, they erected a heavenly august pillar, and they erected a hall of eight fathoms. Then the Male-Who-Invites asked his younger sister the Female-Who-Invites, saying: "How is thy body formed?" She replied, saying: "My body is formed with one part insufficiently formed." Then the Male-Who-Invites said: "My body is formed with one part excessively formed. So I would like to thrust this excessively formed part of my body into the insufficiently formed part of thy body, and thus give birth to the land. How would this be?" The Female-Who-Invites replied, saying: "That will be good."

**9** Then the Male-Who-Invites said: "If that be so, let me and thee go around the heavenly august pillar, and when we meet, let us be joined." Having thus agreed, he said: "Do thou go around from the left, and I will go around from the right." When they had gone around, the Female-Who-Invites spoke first and said: "What a fair and lovable youth!" Then the Male-Who-Invites spoke and said: "What a fair and lovable maiden!"

**10** But afterward he said: "It was not right for the woman to speak first." Nevertheless they commenced the work, and the child born to them was the leech-child, which even at the age of three years could not stand upright. So they placed the leech-child in a boat of reeds and let it float away.

**11** Next they gave birth to the Island of Aha. This likewise is not reckoned among their children.

**12** Hereupon the two Deities took counsel, saying: "The children to whom we have now given birth are not good. It will be best to announce this in the august place of the Heavenly Deities." They ascended forthwith to Heaven and enquired of the Heavenly Deities.

**13** Then the Heavenly Deities commanded and found out by grand divination, and ordered them, saying: "They were not good because the woman spoke first. Descend back again and amend your words."

**14** So thereupon descending back, they again went around the heavenly august pillar. Then the Male-Who-Invites spoke first: "What a fair and lovable maiden!" Afterward his younger sister the Female-Who-Invites spoke: "What a fair and lovable youth!"

**15** When these words were said, they were joined together and gave birth to the Island of Ahaji. Next they gave birth to the Island of Futa-na in Iyo. This island has one body and four faces, and each face has a name. So the Land of Iyo is called Lovely-Princess; the Land of Sanuki is called Prince-Good-Boiled-Rice; the Land of Aha is called the Princess-of-Great-Food; the Land of Tosa is called Brave-Good-Youth.

**16** Next they gave birth to the Islands of Mitsu-go near Oki, another name for which islands is Heavenly-Great-Heart-Youth. Next they gave birth to the Island of Tsukushi. This island likewise has one body and four faces, and each face has a name. So the Land of Tsukushi is called White-Sun-Youth; the Land of Toyo is called Luxuriant-Sun-Youth; the Land of Hi is called Brave-Sun-Confronting-Luxuriant-Wondrous-Lord-Youth; the Land of Kumaso is called Brave-Sun-Youth.

**17** Next they gave birth to the Island of Iki, another name for which is Heaven's-One-Pillar. Next they gave birth to the Island of Tsu, another name for which is Heavenly-Hand-Net-Good-Princess. Next they gave birth to the Island of Sado. Next they gave birth to Great-Yamato-the-Luxuriant-Island-of-the-Dragon-Fly, another name for which is Heavenly-August-Sky-Luxuriant-Dragon-Fly-Lord-Youth.

**18** The eight islands having been born first, the appellation of the Great-Eight-Island-Country originated thence.

**19** After that, when they had returned, they gave birth to the Island of Ko in Kibi, another name for which island is Brave-Sun-Direction-Youth. Next they gave birth to the Island of Azuki, another name for which is Oho-Nu-De-Hime. Next they gave birth to the Island of Oho, another name for which is Oho-Tamaru-Wake. Next they gave birth to the Island of Hime, another name for which is Heaven's-One-Root. Next they gave birth to the Island of Chika, another name for which is Heavenly-Great-Male. Next they gave birth to the Islands of Futa-go, another name for which is Heaven's Two-Houses.

**20** Next they gave birth to the Deity of Wind, whose name is the Male-Deity-Born-of-the-Great-House. Next they gave birth to the Deity of Trees, whose name is the Deity-Stem-Elder. Next they gave birth to the Deity of the Sea, whose name is the Great-Male-Deity-of-the-Sea-Possessor. Next they gave birth to the Deity of the Water-Gates, whose name is the Deity-of-the-Water-Gates.
