---
title: "Kojiki - Chapter 3"
scripture: "kojiki"
chapter: 3
---

**1** So while all the other Deities obeyed the commands with which they were charged, the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness did not obey the command with which he was charged, but cried and wept till his beard reached to the pit of his stomach. His weeping was such as by it to wither the green mountains into withered mountains, and by it to dry up all the rivers and seas.

**2** For this reason the sound of evil Deities was like unto the flies in the fifth moon as they all swarmed, and in all things every portent of woe arose. So the Male-Who-Invites said to the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness: "How is it that, instead of ruling the land with which I charged thee, thou dost wail and weep?"

**3** He replied, saying: "I wail because I wish to depart to the land of my dead mother, to the Nether Distant Land." Then the Male-Who-Invites was very angry and said: "If that be so, thou shalt not dwell in this land," and at once expelled him with a divine expulsion.

**4** So the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness said: "If that be so, I will take my leave of the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity, and depart." So he ascended to Heaven, whereupon all the mountains and rivers shook, and every land and country quaked.

**5** Then the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity, alarmed at the noise, said: "The reason of my brother's ascent is surely of no good intent. It is only that he wishes to wrest my land from me." And she forthwith, unbinding her august hair, twisted it into august bunches; and both into the left and into the right august bunch, as likewise into her august head-dress, she twisted an augustly complete string of curved jewels eight feet long.

**6** On her back she slung a quiver of a thousand arrows, and on her breast she tied a quiver of five hundred arrows. She likewise took and slung at her side a mighty and high-sounding elbow-pad, and brandishing her bow end upward, she stamped her legs up to her opposing thighs, kicking away the hard earth, and stood valiantly like unto a mighty man, and said: "Wherefore ascendest thou hither?"

**7** Then the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness replied: "I have no evil intent. It is only that when the Great-August-Deity our father spoke, deigning to enquire the cause of my wailing and weeping, I said: 'I wail because I wish to go to my dead mother's land,' and he expelled me with a divine expulsion. It is therefore solely with the thought of taking leave of thee and departing, that I have ascended hither. I have no strange intentions."

**8** Then the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity said: "If that be so, how shall I know that the intentions of thine heart are pure and bright?" Then the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness replied: "Let each of us swear, and produce children." So as they then swore to each other from the opposite banks of the Tranquil River of Heaven, the children that were born were august.

**9** The Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity first begged the ten-grasp sabre which was augustly girded on the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness, broke it into three fragments, and washed them making a jingling sound in the True-Pool-Well of Heaven. She then chewed them to pieces and blew them away, and the Deities that were born from the mist of her breath were three august female Deities.

**10** Then the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness begged the augustly complete string of curved jewels eight feet long that was twisted in the left august bunch of the hair of the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity, and washed the jewels making a jingling sound in the True-Pool-Well of Heaven, chewed them to pieces and blew them away, and from the mist of his breath were born five male Deities.

**11** Then the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity said to the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness: "As for the seed of the five male Deities born last, their birth was from things of mine; so undoubtedly they are my children. As for the seed of the three female Deities born first, their birth was from a thing of thine; so doubtless they are thy children." Thus did she distinguish them.

**12** So the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness, having thus gained his point, dwelt in Heaven. But his conduct was exceedingly rude. He broke down the divisions of the rice-fields which the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity had planted, and filled up the ditches. Again, in the hall where she was celebrating the feast of first-fruits, he secretly voided filth.

**13** So, notwithstanding all this, the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity upbraided him not, but said: "What looks like filth must be something that my brother has vomited through drunkenness. Again, his breaking down the divisions of the rice-fields and filling up their ditches must be because he grudges the land they occupy." But notwithstanding her speaking thus kindly, his evil acts did not cease, but became more flagrant.

**14** As the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity sat in her august weaving-hall, seeing to the weaving of the augustly divine garments, he broke a hole in the top of the weaving hall, and through it let fall a heavenly piebald horse which he had flayed with a backward flaying, at whose sight the weaving women were so much alarmed that they died.

**15** Then the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity, terrified at the sight, opened the door of the Heavenly Rock-Dwelling, and hid herself inside. Then the whole Plain of High Heaven was obscured, and all the Central Land of Reed-Plains darkened. Owing to this, eternal night prevailed.

**16** Hereupon the voices of the myriad Deities were like unto the flies in the fifth moon as they all swarmed, and a myriad portents of woe all arose. Therefore did the eight hundred myriad Deities assemble in a divine assembly in the bed of the Tranquil River of Heaven, and bid the Deity Thought-Includer, child of the High-August-Producing-Wondrous-Deity, think of a plan.

**17** They gathered together the long-singing birds of eternal night and made them sing. They took the hard rocks of heaven from the river-bed and took iron from the Heavenly Metal-Mountains, and called the smith Amatsumara, and charged the Deity Ishikoridome to make a mirror, and charged the Deity Jewel-Ancestor to make an augustly complete string of curved jewels eight feet long.

**18** They summoned the Deity Grand-Male-Possessor and the Deity Far-Striding to pull out with a complete pulling the shoulder-blade of a true stag from the Heavenly Mount Kagu, and take cherries from the Mount and perform divination.

**19** They uprooted a true sakaki tree of five hundred branches from the Heavenly Mount Kagu, and on its upper branches they hung the augustly complete string of curved jewels eight feet long; on the middle branches they hung an eight-hand mirror; and on its lower branches they hung white offerings and blue offerings. These diverse things were held in their hands by the Grand-Male-Possessor as grand offerings, and the Deity Far-Striding pronounced the liturgy.

**20** And the Heavenly-Hand-Strength-Male-Deity stood hidden beside the door, while the Heavenly-Alarming-Female bound up her sleeves with a cord of heavenly clubmoss from the Heavenly Mount Kagu, tied round her head a head-band of the heavenly spindle-tree, bound together bundles of leaves of the bamboo-grass, and overturning a bucket before the door of the Heavenly Rock-Dwelling, she stamped loudly and danced, and made the Deities laugh uproariously.

**21** Then the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity was amazed and, slightly opening the door, said from within: "Methought that owing to my retirement the Plain of High Heaven would be dark, and likewise the Central Land of Reed-Plains would all be dark; how then is it that the Heavenly-Alarming-Female makes merry, and that likewise the eight hundred myriad Deities all laugh?"

**22** Then the Heavenly-Alarming-Female spoke, saying: "We rejoice and are glad because there is a Deity more illustrious than Thine Augustness." While she was thus speaking, the Grand-Male-Possessor and the Deity Far-Striding pushed forward the mirror and respectfully showed it to the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity, whereupon the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity, more and more astonished, gradually came forth from the door and gazed upon it.

**23** Then the Heavenly-Hand-Strength-Male-Deity, who was standing hidden, took her august hand and drew her out, and the Grand-Male-Possessor at once drew a rope behind her, saying: "Thou must not go back further in than this." So when the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity had come forth, both the Plain of High Heaven and the Central Land of Reed-Plains of course again became light.

**24** Then the eight hundred myriad Deities took counsel together, imposed upon the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness a fine of a thousand tables of expiatory offerings, and having furthermore cut off his beard and the nails of his hands and feet, they expelled him with a divine expulsion.

**25** So the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness descended from Heaven and proceeded to the head-waters of the River Hi in the land of Idzumo. At this time he heard the sound of weeping from up the river, and he went in search of the sound. He found an old man and an old woman who had a young maiden between them, and were weeping.

**26** He asked: "Who are ye?" The old man replied: "I am an Earthly-Deity, child of the Deity-of-the-Great-Mountain. My name is Foot-Stroking-Elder, my wife's name is Hand-Stroking-Elder, and our daughter's name is Wondrous-Inada-Princess."

**27** He asked again: "What is the cause of your weeping?" The old man answered: "I had originally eight young daughters. But the eight-forked serpent of Koshi has come every year and devoured one, and it is now its time to come, wherefore we weep."

**28** Then the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness said: "If that be so, wilt thou give me thy daughter?" He replied: "With reverence, but I know not thine august name." He replied: "I am elder brother to the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity. So I have now descended from Heaven."

**29** Then he bade them brew eight-fold sake, and he bade them make a fence round about, and in that fence he bade them make eight gates, and at each gate he bade them set a platform, and on each platform a liquor-vat, and into each vat to pour the eight-fold sake, and to wait.

**30** So as they waited after having prepared everything in accordance with his bidding, the eight-forked serpent came truly as the old man had said, and immediately dipped a head into each vat, and drank the sake. Thereupon it was intoxicated with drinking, and all the heads lay down and slept.

**31** Then the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness drew the ten-grasp sabre that was augustly girded on him, and cut the serpent in pieces, so that the River Hi flowed on changed into a river of blood. So when he cut the middle tail, the edge of his august sword broke. Then, thinking it strange, he thrust and split the flesh with the point of his august sword and looked, and there was a great sword within.

**32** So he took the great sword, and, thinking it a strange thing, he respectfully informed the Heaven-Shining-Great-August-Deity. This is the Herb-Quelling Great Sword, which is also called the Sword of the Gathering Clouds of Heaven.

**33** Then the Brave-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness sought in the land of Idzumo for a place where he might build a palace. He arrived at a place called Suga, and said: "On coming to this place my heart is refreshed." So he built a palace there and dwelt in it. Therefore that place is now called Suga.

**34** When this great Deity first built the palace of Suga, clouds rose from that place. Then he made an august song. That song said: "Many clouds rise. The clouds form a manifold fence. For the newly-weds to retire within they form a manifold fence. That manifold fence."
