---
title: "Thanksgiving Hymns - Chapter 4"
scripture: "thanksgiving-hymns"
chapter: 4
---

**1** I thank Thee, O Lord, for Thou hast sustained me with Thy strength, and hast poured out Thy Holy Spirit within me that I shall not stumble.

**2** Thou hast strengthened me before the wars of wickedness, and in all their calamities Thou hast not suffered me to be dismayed so as to depart from Thy Covenant.

**3** Thou hast set me like a strong tower, like a high wall, and hast established my edifice upon rock; and everlasting foundations serve me for my ground, and all my walls are a tried wall which nothing shall shake.

**4** And Thou, O my God, hast appointed me as a holy counsel to the weary; Thou hast taught me Thy counsel, and by Thy marvellous mysteries Thou hast confirmed me.

**5** And Thou hast done marvels before the congregation for the sake of Thy glory, that they may make known Thy mighty deeds to all the living.

**6** But what is flesh to be worthy of this? What is a creature of clay for such great marvels to be done? For he is in iniquity from the womb, and in guilty unfaithfulness until his old age.

**7** Righteousness, I know, is not of man, nor is perfection of way of the son of man: to the Most High God belong all righteous deeds.

**8** The way of man is not established except by the spirit which God created for him, to make perfect a way for the children of men, that all His creatures might know the might of His power, and the abundance of His mercies towards all the sons of His grace.

**9** As for me, shaking and trembling seize me and all my bones are broken; my heart dissolves like wax before fire, and my knees are like water pouring down a steep place.

**10** For I remember my sins and the unfaithfulness of my fathers. When the wicked rose against Thy Covenant, the wanton against Thy Word, I said in my sinfulness, I am forsaken by Thy Covenant.

**11** But calling to mind the might of Thy hand and the greatness of Thy compassion, I rose and stood, and my spirit was established in face of the scourge.

**12** I lean on Thy grace and on the multitude of Thy mercies, for Thou wilt pardon iniquity, and through Thy righteousness Thou wilt purify man of his sin.

**13** Not for his sake dost Thou do it, but for the sake of Thy glory.

**14** For Thou hast created the just and the wicked, and him that is great and him that is small, and the rich and the poor.

**15** But the wicked are the object of Thy wrath, and the just are the object of Thy grace. For Thou wilt perfect Thy work.
