---
title: "Testimony of Truth - Chapter 1"
scripture: "testimony-of-truth"
chapter: 1
---

**1** I will speak to those who know to hear not with the ears of the body but with the ears of the mind.

**2** For many have sought after the truth and have not been able to find it, because there has taken hold of them the old leaven of the Pharisees and the scribes of the Law.

**3** And the leaven is the errant desire of the angels and the demons and the stars.

**4** As for the Pharisees and the scribes, it is they who belong to the archons who have authority over them.

**5** For no one who is under the Law will be able to look up to the truth, for they will not be able to serve two masters.

**6** For the defilement of the Law is manifest; but undefilement belongs to the light.

**7** The Law commands one to take a husband and to take a wife, and to beget, to multiply like the sand of the sea.

**8** But the passion which is a delight to them constrains the souls of those who are begotten in this place, those who defile and those who are defiled, in order that the Law might be fulfilled through them.

**9** And they show that they are assisting the world; and they turn away from the light, who are unable to pass by the archon of darkness until they pay the last penny.

**10** But the Son of Man came forth from Imperishability, being alien to defilement.

**11** He came to the world by the Jordan river, and immediately the Jordan turned back.

**12** And John bore witness to the descent of Jesus. For he is the one who saw the power which came down upon the Jordan river; for he knew that the dominion of carnal procreation had come to an end.

**13** The Jordan river is the power of the body, that is, the senses of pleasures. The water of the Jordan is the desire for sexual intercourse.

**14** John is the archon of the womb.

**15** And this is what the Son of Man reveals to us: It is fitting for you to receive the word of truth, if one will receive it perfectly.

**16** But as for one who is in ignorance, it is difficult for him to diminish his works of darkness which he has done.

**17** Those who have known Imperishability, however, have been able to struggle against passions.

**18** I have said to you, Do not build nor gather for yourselves in the place where the brigands break open, but bring forth fruit to the Father.
