---
title: "Descent of Inanna Section 7"
scripture: "descent-of-inanna"
chapter: 7
---

**Section VII: The Resolution**

**1** Dumuzi ran to the house of old woman Belili.
**2** He said: "Old woman, I am not merely a man; I am the husband of a goddess.
**3** Pour water for me; sprinkle flour for me."

**4** The old woman poured water for him and sprinkled flour.
**5** But the galla found him.
**6** They seized Dumuzi.

**7** They beat him and struck him.
**8** They tore his clothes.
**9** The galla of the underworld held him fast.

**10** Dumuzi wept. His face turned green.
**11** Utu raised his hands to heaven.
**12** Utu turned Dumuzi into a gazelle.
**13** Dumuzi escaped the galla once more.

**14** But the galla followed him again.
**15** They found him in the sheepfold of Geshtinanna.
**16** They seized him. They held him fast.
**17** They beat him. They struck him.

**18** Geshtinanna sought Dumuzi everywhere.
**19** Flies circled her head. She wandered about the city.
**20** She wept through the steppe.
**21** "O my brother! O Dumuzi!"

**22** Inanna looked at Dumuzi.
**23** It was the look of death. She spoke:
**24** "You will go to the underworld
**25** half the year.
**26** Your sister, since she has asked,
**27** will go the other half.

**28** On the day you are called,
**29** that day you will be taken.
**30** On the day Geshtinanna is called,
**31** that day you will be set free."

**32** Inanna placed Dumuzi in the hands of the eternal.

**33** Holy Ereshkigal! Great is your renown!
**34** Holy Ereshkigal! I sing your praises!

**35** So it was that Dumuzi spent half the year in the underworld,
**36** and Geshtinanna spent the other half.
**37** When one ascended, the other descended.

**38** Thus was the cycle of the seasons set,
**39** the dying and reviving of the land,
**40** the descent and return,
**41** as ordained by holy Inanna.

**42** [Thus ends the Descent of Inanna to the Underworld.]
