---
title: "Hidden Words - Chapter 13"
scripture: "hidden-words"
chapter: 13
---

**1** O People of the World! The virtue of prudence is the prince of all virtues; the wise man guideth his steps by it. With discernment may every man distinguish the temple of God from that of idols.

**2** O Weed That Springeth out of Dust! Wherefore have not these soiled hands of thine touched first thine own garment, and why with thine heart defiled with desire hast thou sought communion with Me and entered My sacred realm?

**3** O Son of Dust! All that the sages and mystics have said or written have never exceeded, nor can they ever hope to exceed, a single letter thereof, for the tongue of the Silent One speaketh the innermost mystery.

**4** O Essence of Desire! At many a dawn have I turned from the realms of the Placeless unto thine abode, and found thee on the bed of ease busied with others. Thereupon, even as the flash of the spirit, I returned to the realms of celestial glory and breathed it not in My retreats above to the hosts of holiness.

**5** O Bond Slave of the World! Many a dawn hath the breeze of My loving-kindness wafted over thee and found thee upon the bed of heedlessness fast asleep. Bewailing then thy plight it returned whence it came.

**6** O Son of Dust! The wise are they that speak not unless they obtain a hearing, even as the cup-bearer, who proffereth not his cup till he findeth a seeker.

**7** O Offspring of Dust! Seek a true friend, for a friend is he who, in the season of prosperity, is a joy and a delight, and in the time of adversity a comfort and succor.

**8** O My Brother! When a true seeker determineth to take the step of search in the path leading to the knowledge of the Ancient of Days, he must, before all else, cleanse and purify his heart.

**9** O Son of Spirit! The time cometh, when the nightingale of holiness will no longer unfold the inner mysteries and ye will all be bereft of the celestial melody and of the voice from on high.

**10** O Son of Dust! Hear Me: Beautiful indeed is that bird that is adorned with the finest plumage, and such is the heart that is illumined with the light of a pure intent.
