---
title: "Hidden Words - Chapter 14"
scripture: "hidden-words"
chapter: 14
---

**1** O Ye Rich Ones on Earth! The poor in your midst are My trust; guard ye My trust, and be not intent only on your own ease.

**2** O Son of Man! Should prosperity befall thee, rejoice not, and should abasement come upon thee, grieve not, for both shall pass away and be no more.

**3** O Son of Being! If thine heart be set upon this eternal, imperishable dominion, and this ancient, everlasting life, forsake this mortal and fleeting sovereignty.

**4** O My Servant! The best of men are they that earn a livelihood by their calling and spend upon themselves and upon their kindred for the love of God, the Lord of all worlds.

**5** O Children of Negligence! Set not your affections on mortal sovereignty and rejoice not therein. Ye are even as the unwary bird that with full confidence warbleth upon the bough; till of a sudden the fowler Death throws it upon the dust, and the melody, the form and the color are gone.

**6** O My Friends! Remember that covenant ye entered into with Me upon Mount Paran, and in the hallowed precincts of Zaman. I took to witness the concourse on high and the dwellers in the city of eternity, yet now none do I find faithful unto the covenant.

**7** O Son of Being! Thy heart is My home; sanctify it for My descent. Thy spirit is My place of revelation; cleanse it for My manifestation.

**8** O Son of Utterance! Turn thy face unto Mine and renounce all save Me; for My sovereignty endureth and My dominion perisheth not. If thou seekest another than Me, yea, if thou searchest the universe for evermore, thy quest shall be in vain.

**9** O Immortal Lovers! Shed not the celestial blood of them that are near unto God by the hands of malice and aggression. Verily, their blood is shed in the path of God.

**10** O Inhabitants of Earth! Know, verily, the heart wherein the least remnant of envy yet lingers, shall never attain My everlasting dominion.
