---
title: "Hidden Words - Chapter 7"
scripture: "hidden-words"
chapter: 7
---

**1** O Son of Love! Thou art but one step away from the glorious heights above and from the celestial tree of love. Take thou one pace and with the next advance into the immortal realm and enter the pavilion of eternity.

**2** O Son of Worldliness! Pleasant is the realm of being, wert thou to attain thereto; glorious is the domain of eternity, shouldst thou pass beyond the world of mortality; sweet is the holy ecstasy if thou drinkest of the mystic chalice from the hands of the celestial Youth.

**3** O My Friends! Have ye forgotten that true and radiant morn, when in those hallowed and blessed surroundings ye were all gathered in My presence beneath the shade of the tree of life? Awestruck ye listened as I gave utterance to these words: O My friends! Prefer not your own will to Mine.

**4** O Son of Justice! In the night-season the beauty of the immortal Being hath repaired from the emerald height of fidelity unto the Sadratu'l-Muntaha, and wept with such a weeping that the concourse on high and the dwellers of the realms above wailed at His lamenting.

**5** O Heedless Ones! Think not the secrets of hearts are hidden; nay, know ye of a certainty that in clear characters they are engraved and are openly manifest in the holy Presence.

**6** O Children of Desire! Put away the garment of vainglory, and divest yourselves of the attire of haughtiness.

**7** O Ye That Pride Yourselves on Mortal Riches! Know ye in truth that wealth is a mighty barrier between the seeker and his desire, the lover and his beloved. The rich, but for a few, shall in no wise attain the court of His presence nor enter the city of contentment and resignation.

**8** O My Servant! Thou art even as a finely tempered sword concealed in the darkness of its sheath and its value hidden from the artificer's knowledge. Wherefore come forth from the sheath of self and desire that thy worth may be made resplendent and manifest unto all the world.

**9** O My Friend! Thou art the daystar of the heavens of My holiness, let not the defilement of the world eclipse thy splendor.

**10** O Son of Desire! How long wilt thou soar in the realms of desire? Wings have I bestowed upon thee, that thou mayest fly to the realms of mystic holiness and not the regions of satanic fancy.
