---
title: "Hidden Words - Chapter 8"
scripture: "hidden-words"
chapter: 8
---

**1** O My Servant! Free thyself from the fetters of this world, and loose thy soul from the prison of self. Seize thy chance, for it will come to thee no more.

**2** O My Servant! Purge thy heart from malice and, innocent of envy, enter the divine court of holiness.

**3** O Son of Earth! Wouldst thou have Me, seek none other than Me; and wouldst thou gaze upon My beauty, close thine eyes to the world and all that is therein.

**4** O My Children! I fear lest, bereft of the melody of the celestial dove, ye will sink back to the shades of utter loss, nor ever behold the effulgence of the morn of reunion.

**5** O Brethren! Be forbearing one with another and set not your affections on things below. Pride not yourselves in your glory, and be not ashamed of abasement. By My beauty! I have created all things from dust, and to dust will I return them again.

**6** O Children of Negligence and Passion! Ye have suffered My enemy to enter My house and have cast out My friend, for ye have enshrined the love of another than Me in your hearts.

**7** O Weed That Springeth Out of Dust! Wherefore have not these soiled hands of thine touched first thine own garment, and why with thine eyes defiled with desire hast thou beheld the holy countenance of the Friend?

**8** O My Servant! The best of men are they that earn a livelihood by their calling and spend upon themselves and upon their kindred for the love of God, the Lord of all worlds.

**9** O Son of My Handmaid! Be not troubled in poverty nor confident in riches, for poverty is followed by riches, and riches are followed by poverty. Yet to be poor in all save God is a wondrous gift, belittle not the value thereof.

**10** O Children of Vainglory! For a fleeting sovereignty ye have abandoned My imperishable dominion, and have adorned yourselves with the gay livery of the world and made of it your boast. By My beauty! All will I gather beneath the one-colored covering of the dust and efface all these diverse colors save them that choose My own.
