---
title: "Quran - Chapter 3"
scripture: "quran"
chapter: 3
---

**1** Alif. Lam. Mim.

**2** Allah! There is no god but He, the Living, the Self-Subsisting, Eternal.

**3** It is He Who sent down to thee step by step, in truth, the Book, confirming what went before it; and He sent down the Law of Moses and the Gospel of Jesus before this, as a guide to mankind, and He sent down the criterion of judgment between right and wrong.

**4** Then those who reject Faith in the Signs of Allah, for them is a severe penalty; and Allah is Exalted in Might, Lord of Retribution.

**5** From Allah, verily nothing is hidden on earth or in the heavens.

**6** He it is Who shapes you in the wombs as He pleases. There is no god but He, the Exalted in Might, the Wise.

**7** He it is Who has sent down to thee the Book: In it are verses basic or fundamental of established meaning; they are the foundation of the Book: others are allegorical. But those in whose hearts is perversity follow the part thereof that is allegorical, seeking discord, and searching for its hidden meanings, but no one knows its hidden meanings except Allah. And those who are firmly grounded in knowledge say: "We believe in the Book; the whole of it is from our Lord:" and none will grasp the Message except men of understanding.

**8** "Our Lord!" they say, "Let not our hearts deviate now after Thou hast guided us, but grant us mercy from Thine own Presence; for Thou art the Grantor of bounties without measure."

**9** "Our Lord! Thou art He that will gather mankind together against a day about which there is no doubt; for Allah never fails in His promise."

**10** Those who reject Faith, neither their possessions nor their progeny will avail them aught against Allah: They are themselves but fuel for the Fire.
