---
title: "Surah 85 — Al-Buruj (The Constellations)"
scripture: "quran"
chapter: 85
---

**1** By the sky, displaying the Zodiacal Signs;

**2** By the promised Day (of Judgment);

**3** By one that witnesses, and the subject of the witness;—

**4** Woe to the makers of the pit (of fire),

**5** Fire supplied (abundantly) with fuel:

**6** Behold! they sat over against the (fire),

**7** And they witnessed (all) that they were doing against the Believers.

**8** And they ill-treated them for no other reason than that they believed in Allah, Exalted in Power, Worthy of all Praise!—

**9** Him to Whom belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth! And Allah is Witness to all things.

**10** Those who persecute (or draw into temptation) the Believers, men and women, and do not turn in repentance, will have the Penalty of Hell: They will have the Penalty of the Burning Fire.

**11** For those who believe and do righteous deeds, will be Gardens, beneath which rivers flow: That is the great Salvation, (the fulfilment of all desires),

**12** Truly strong is the Grip (and Power) of thy Lord.

**13** It is He Who creates from the very beginning, and He can restore (life).

**14** And He is the Oft-Forgiving, Full of loving-kindness,

**15** Lord of the Throne of Glory,

**16** Doer (without let) of all that He intends.

**17** Has the story reached thee, of the forces—

**18** Of Pharaoh and the Thamud?

**19** And yet the Unbelievers (persist) in rejecting (the Truth)!

**20** But Allah doth encompass them from behind!

**21** Nay, this is a Glorious Qur'an,

**22** (Inscribed) in a Tablet Preserved!
