---
title: "Surah 89 — Al-Fajr (The Dawn)"
scripture: "quran"
chapter: 89
---

**1** By the break of Day;

**2** By the Nights twice five;

**3** By the even and odd (contrasted);

**4** And by the Night when it passeth away;—

**5** Is there (not) in these an adjuration (or evidence) for those who understand?

**6** Seest thou not how thy Lord dealt with the 'Ad (people),—

**7** Of the (city of) Iram, with lofty pillars,

**8** The like of which were not produced in (all) the land?

**9** And with the Thamud (people), who cut out (huge) rocks in the valley?—

**10** And with Pharaoh, lord of stakes?

**11** (All) these transgressed beyond bounds in the lands,

**12** And heaped therein mischief (on mischief).

**13** Therefore did thy Lord pour on them a scourge of diverse chastisements:

**14** For thy Lord is (as a Guardian) on a watch-tower.

**15** Now, as for man, when his Lord trieth him, giving him honour and gifts, then saith he, (puffed up), "My Lord hath honoured me."

**16** But when He trieth him, restricting his subsistence for him, then saith he (in despair), "My Lord hath humiliated me!"

**17** Nay, nay! But ye honour not the orphans!

**18** Nor do ye encourage one another to feed the poor!—

**19** And ye devour inheritance— all with greed,

**20** And ye love wealth with inordinate love!

**21** Nay! When the earth is pounded to powder,

**22** And thy Lord cometh, and His angels, rank upon rank,

**23** And Hell, that Day, is brought (face to face),— on that Day will man remember, but how will that remembrance profit him?

**24** He will say: "Ah! Would that I had sent forth (good deeds) for (this) my (Future) Life!"

**25** For, that Day, His Chastisement will be such as none (else) can inflict,

**26** And His bonds will be such as none (other) can bind.

**27** (To the righteous soul will be said:) "O (thou) soul, in (complete) rest and satisfaction!

**28** "Come back thou to thy Lord,— well pleased (thyself), and well-pleasing unto Him!

**29** "Enter thou, then, among My devotees!

**30** "Yea, enter thou My Heaven!"
