---
title: "Doctrine and Covenants Section 24"
scripture: "doctrine-and-covenants"
chapter: 24
---

**1** Behold, thou wast called and chosen to write the Book of Mormon, and to my ministry; and I have lifted thee up out of thine afflictions, and have counseled thee, that thou hast been delivered from all thine enemies, and thou hast been delivered from the powers of Satan and from darkness!

**2** Nevertheless, thou art not excusable in thy transgressions; nevertheless, go thy way and sin no more.

**3** Magnify thine office; and after thou hast sowed thy fields and secured them, go speedily unto the church which is in Colesville, Fayette, and Manchester, and they shall support thee; and I will bless them both spiritually and temporally;

**4** But if they receive thee not, I will send upon them a cursing instead of a blessing.

**5** And thou shalt continue in calling upon God in my name, and writing the things which shall be given thee by the Comforter, and expounding all scriptures unto the church.

**6** And it shall be given thee in the very moment what thou shalt speak and write, and they shall hear it, or I will send unto them a cursing instead of a blessing.

**7** For thou shalt devote all thy service in Zion; and in this thou shalt have strength.

**8** Be patient in afflictions, for thou shalt have many; but endure them, for, lo, I am with thee, even unto the end of thy days.

**9** And in temporal labors thou shalt not have strength, for this is not thy calling. Attend to thy calling and thou shalt have that which I have spoken; yea, even more than thou art able to bear, except thou sin.

**10** And again, thou shalt take thy brother, Hyrum, with thee, and give him commandments; for I give unto him power to assist thee, in all things, in the church of the living God, and to be a spokesman unto the world. Yea, verily, verily, I say unto you, even as many as receive me, to them will I give power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on my name. Amen.
