---
title: "Doctrine and Covenants Section 46"
scripture: "doctrine-and-covenants"
chapter: 46
---

**1** Hearken, O ye people of my church; for verily I say unto you that these things were spoken unto you for your profit and learning.

**2** But notwithstanding those things which are written, it always has been given to the elders of my church from the beginning, and ever shall be, to conduct all meetings as they are directed and guided by the Holy Spirit.

**3** Nevertheless ye are commanded never to cast any one out from your public meetings, which are held before the world.

**4** Ye are also commanded not to cast any one who belongeth to the church out of your sacrament meetings; nevertheless, if any have trespassed, let him not partake until he makes reconciliation.

**5** And again I say unto you, ye shall not cast any out of your sacrament meetings who are earnestly seeking the kingdom — I speak this concerning those who are not of the church.

**6** And again I say unto you, concerning your confirmation meetings, that if there be any that are not of the church, that are earnestly seeking after the kingdom, ye shall not cast them out.

**7** But ye are commanded in all things to ask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit testifies unto you even so I would that ye should do in all holiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, considering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and thanksgiving.

**8** Wherefore, beware lest ye are deceived; and that ye may not be deceived seek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given;

**9** For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefited that seek or that ask of me.

**10** And again, verily I say unto you, I would that ye should always remember, and always retain in your minds what those gifts are, that are given unto the church.

**11** For all have not every gift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God.

**12** To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all may be profited thereby.

**13** To some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and that he was crucified for the sins of the world.

**14** To others it is given to believe on their words, that they also might have eternal life if they continue faithful.
