---
title: "Doctrine and Covenants Section 49"
scripture: "doctrine-and-covenants"
chapter: 49
---

**1** Hearken unto my word, my servants Sidney, and Parley, and Leman, for behold, verily I say unto you, that I give unto you a commandment that you shall go and preach my gospel which ye have received, even as ye have received it, unto the Shakers.

**2** Behold, I say unto you, that they desire to know the truth in part, but not all, for they are not right before me and must needs repent.

**3** Wherefore, I send you, my servants Sidney and Parley, to preach the gospel unto them.

**4** And my servant Leman shall be ordained unto this work, that he may reason with them, not according to that which he has received of them, but according to that which shall be taught him by you my servants; and by so doing I will bless him, otherwise he shall not prosper.

**5** Thus saith the Lord; for I am God, and have sent mine Only Begotten Son into the world for the redemption of the world, and have decreed that he that receiveth him shall be saved, and he that receiveth him not shall be damned —

**6** And they have done unto the Son of Man even as they listed; and he has taken his power on the right hand of his glory, and now reigneth in the heavens, and will reign till he descends on the earth to put all enemies under his feet, which time is nigh at hand —

**7** I, the Lord God, have spoken it; but the hour and the day no man knoweth, neither the angels in heaven, nor shall they know until he comes.

**8** Wherefore, I will that all men shall repent, for all are under sin, except those which I have reserved unto myself, holy men that ye know not of.

**9** Wherefore, I say unto you that I have sent unto you mine everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning.

**10** And that which I have promised I have so fulfilled, and the nations of the earth shall bow to it; and, if not of themselves, they shall come down, for that which is now exalted of itself shall be laid low of power.

**11** Wherefore, I give unto you a commandment that ye go among this people, and say unto them, like unto mine apostle of old, whose name was Peter:

**12** Believe on the name of the Lord Jesus, who was on the earth, and is to come, the beginning and the end;

**13** Repent and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, according to the holy commandment, for the remission of sins;

**14** And whoso doeth this shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, by the laying on of the hands of the elders of the church.
