---
title: "2 Enoch Chapter 22"
scripture: "2-enoch"
chapter: 22
---

**1** And the Lord summoned one of his archangels by name Pravuil, whose knowledge was quicker in wisdom than the other archangels, who wrote all the deeds of the Lord.

**2** And the Lord said to Pravuil: Bring out the books from my store-houses, and a reed of quick-writing, and give it to Enoch, and deliver to him the choice and comforting books out of thy hand.

**3** And he was telling me all the works of heaven, earth and sea, and all the elements, their passages and goings, and the thunderings of the thunders, the sun and moon, the goings and changes of the stars, the seasons, years, days, and hours, the risings of the wind, the numbers of the angels, and the formation of their songs, and all human things, the tongue of every human song and life, the commandments, instructions, and sweet-voiced singings, and all things that it is fitting to learn.

**4** And Pravuil told me: All the things that I have told thee, we have written. Sit and write all the souls of mankind, however many of them are born, and the places prepared for them to eternity; for all souls are prepared to eternity, before the formation of the world.

**5** And all double thirty days and thirty nights, and I wrote out all things exactly, and wrote three hundred and sixty-six books.

**6** And the Lord said to me: Sit down and write the blessed and the damned.

**7** And I sat down a second time for thirty days and thirty nights, and I wrote everything accurately.

**8** And the Lord said to me: Enoch, beloved, sit and write.

**9** And I sat down and Pravuil instructed me and spoke to me for thirty days and thirty nights, and his lips never ceased speaking, and I had no rest writing, for he had much to say.

**10** And I wrote six hundred and sixty-six books in those sixty days and sixty nights.

**11** And the Lord said to me: Hear, Enoch, and take in these my words, for not to My angels have I told my secret, and I have not told them their rise, nor my endless realm, nor have they understood my creating, which I tell thee to-day.

**12** For before all things were visible, I alone used to go about in the invisible things, like the sun from east to west, and from west to east.

**13** But even the sun has peace in itself, while I found no peace, because I was creating all things, and I conceived the thought of placing foundations, and of creating visible creation.
