---
title: "2 Enoch Chapter 23"
scripture: "2-enoch"
chapter: 23
---

**1** I commanded in the very lowest parts, that visible things should come down from invisible.

**2** And Adoil came down very great, and I beheld him, and lo! He had a belly of great light.

**3** And I said to him: Become undone, Adoil, and let the visible come out of thee.

**4** And he came undone, and a great light came out. And I was in the midst of the great light, and as there is born light from light, there came forth a great age, and showed all creation, which I had thought to create.

**5** And I saw that it was good.

**6** And I placed for myself a throne, and took my seat on it, and said to the light: Go thou up higher and fix thyself high above the throne, and be a foundation to the highest things.

**7** And above the light there is nothing else, and then I bent up and looked up from my throne.

**8** And I summoned the very lowest a second time, and said: Let Archas come forth hard. And he came forth hard from the invisible.

**9** And Archas came forth, hard, heavy, and very red.

**10** And I said: Be opened, Archas, and let there be born from thee. And he came undone, an age came forth, very great and very dark, bearing the creation of all lower things, and I saw that it was good.

**11** And I said to him: Go thou down below, and make thyself firm, and be a foundation for the lower things. And it happened and he went down and fixed himself, and became the foundation for the lower things, and below the darkness there is nothing else.

**12** And I commanded that there should be taken from light and darkness, and I said: Be thick. And it became thus, and I spread it out with the light, and it became water, and I spread it out over the darkness, below the light.

**13** And thus I made firm the waters, that is to say, the bottomless, and I made foundation of light around the water, and created seven circles from inside, and imaged the water like crystal wet and dry, that is to say, like glass and the encirclement of the waters and the other elements.

**14** And I showed each one of them its way, and the seven stars each one of them in its heaven, that they go thus, and I saw that it was good.

**15** And I separated between light and between darkness, that is to say in the midst of the water hither and thither, and I said to the light, that it should be the day, and to the darkness, that it should be the night, and there was evening and there was morning the first day.
