---
title: "Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs - Chapter 10"
scripture: "testaments-of-twelve-patriarchs"
chapter: 10
---

**1** The copy of the Testament of Gad, the ninth son of Jacob and Zilpah, concerning hatred.

**2** He gathered his sons together, being in the hundred and twenty-seventh year of his life, and said to them:

**3** Hearken, my children, I was the ninth son born to Jacob, and I was valiant in keeping the flocks.

**4** Accordingly I guarded at night the flock; and whenever the lion came, or the wolf, or any wild beast against the fold, I pursued it, and overtaking it I seized its foot with my hand and hurled it about a stone's throw, and so killed it.

**5** Now Joseph my brother was feeding the flock with us for upwards of thirty days, and being young, he fell sick by reason of the heat.

**6** And he returned to Hebron to our father, who made him lie down near him, because he loved him greatly.

**7** And Joseph told our father that the sons of Zilpah and Bilhah were slaying the best of the flock and eating them against the judgment of Reuben and Judah.

**8** For he saw that I had delivered a lamb out of the mouth of a bear, and put the bear to death; but had slain the lamb, being grieved concerning it that it could not live, and that we had eaten it.

**9** And regarding this matter I was wroth with Joseph until the day that he was sold.

**10** And the spirit of hatred was in me, and I wished not either to hear of Joseph with the ears, or see him with the eyes, because he rebuked us to our faces saying that we were eating of the flock without Judah.

**11** For whatsoever things he told our father, he believed him.

**12** I confess now my sin, my children, that oftentimes I wished to kill him, because I hated him from my heart.

**13** Moreover, I hated him yet more for his dreams; and I wished to lick him out of the land of the living, even as an ox licketh up the grass of the field.

**14** And Judah sold him secretly to the Ishmaelites.

**15** Thus the God of our fathers delivered him from our hands, that we should not work great lawlessness in Israel.

**16** And now, my children, hearken to the words of truth to work righteousness, and all the law of the Most High, and go not astray through the spirit of hatred, for it is evil in all the doings of men.

**17** Whatsoever a man doeth the hater abominateth him: and though a man worketh the law of the Lord, he praiseth him not; though a man feareth the Lord, and taketh pleasure in that which is righteous, he loveth him not.

**18** He dispraiseth the truth, he envieth him that prospereth, he welcometh evil-speaking, he loveth arrogance, for hatred blindeth his soul; as I also then looked on Joseph.

**19** Beware, therefore, my children, of hatred; for it worketh lawlessness even against the Lord Himself.

**20** For it will not hear the words of His commandments concerning the loving of one's neighbour, and it sinneth against God.

**21** For if a brother stumble, it delighteth immediately to proclaim it to all men, and is urgent that he should be judged for it, and be punished and be put to death.
