---
title: "Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs - Chapter 2"
scripture: "testaments-of-twelve-patriarchs"
chapter: 2
---

**1** Besides all these there is an eighth spirit of sleep, with which is brought about the trance of nature and the image of death.

**2** With these spirits are mingled the spirits of error.

**3** First, the spirit of fornication is seated in the nature and in the senses;

**4** The second, the spirit of insatiableness, in the belly;

**5** The third, the spirit of fighting, in the liver and gall.

**6** The fourth is the spirit of obsequiousness and chicanery, that through officious attention one may be fair in seeming.

**7** The fifth is the spirit of pride, that one may be boastful and arrogant.

**8** The sixth is the spirit of lying, in perdition and jealousy to practise deceits, and concealments from kindred and friends.

**9** The seventh is the spirit of injustice, with which are thefts and acts of rapacity, that a man may fulfil the desire of his heart; for injustice worketh together with the other spirits by the taking of gifts.

**10** And with all these the spirit of sleep is joined which is that of error and fantasy.

**11** And so perisheth every young man, darkening his mind from the truth, and not understanding the law of God, nor obeying the admonitions of his fathers, as befell me also in my youth.

**12** And now, my children, love the truth, and it will preserve you: hear ye the words of Reuben your father.

**13** Pay no heed to the face of a woman, nor associate with another man's wife, nor meddle with affairs of womankind.

**14** For had I not seen Bilhah bathing in a covered place, I had not fallen into this great iniquity.

**15** For my mind taking in the thought of the woman's nakedness, suffered me not to sleep until I had wrought the abominable thing.

**16** For while Jacob our father had gone to Isaac his father, when we were in Eder, near to Ephrath in Bethlehem, Bilhah became drunk and was asleep uncovered in her chamber.

**17** Having therefore gone in and beheld her nakedness, I wrought the impiety without her perceiving it, and leaving her sleeping I departed.

**18** And forthwith an angel of God revealed to my father concerning my impiety, and he came and mourned over me, and touched her no more.
