---
title: "Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs - Chapter 3"
scripture: "testaments-of-twelve-patriarchs"
chapter: 3
---

**1** The copy of the Testament of Simeon, the second son of Jacob, which he spake to his sons before he died, in the hundred and twentieth year of his life.

**2** At that time Simeon was sick, and his sons came to visit him, and he strengthened himself and sat up and kissed them, and said:

**3** Hearken, my children, to Simeon your father, and I will declare unto you what things I have in my heart.

**4** I was born of Jacob as my father's second son; and my mother Leah called me Simeon, because the Lord had heard her prayer.

**5** Moreover, I became strong exceedingly; I shrank from no achievement, nor was I afraid of ought.

**6** For my heart was hard, and my liver was immovable, and my bowels without compassion.

**7** Because valour also has been given from the Most High to men in soul and body.

**8** For in the time of my youth I was jealous in many things of Joseph, because my father loved him beyond all.

**9** And I set my mind against him to destroy him, because the prince of deceit sent forth the spirit of jealousy and blinded my mind, so that I regarded him not as a brother, and spared not even Jacob my father.

**10** But his God and the God of his fathers sent forth His angel, and delivered him out of my hands.

**11** For when I went to Shechem to bring ointment for the flocks, and Reuben to Dothan, where were our necessaries and all our stores, Judah my brother sold him to the Ishmaelites.

**12** And when Reuben heard these things he was grieved, for he wished to restore him to his father.

**13** But on hearing this I was exceedingly wroth against Judah in that he let him go away alive, and for five months I continued wrathful against him.

**14** But the Lord restrained me, and withheld from me the power of my hands; for my right hand was half withered for seven days.

**15** And I knew, my children, that because of Joseph this had befallen me, and I repented and wept; and I besought the Lord God that my hand might be restored, and that I might hold aloof from all pollution and envy and from all folly.

**16** For I knew that I had devised an evil thing before the Lord and Jacob my father, on account of Joseph my brother, in that I envied him.
