---
title: "Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs - Chapter 6"
scripture: "testaments-of-twelve-patriarchs"
chapter: 6
---

**1** The copy of the Testament of Issachar, the fifth son of Jacob and Leah, which he spake to his sons.

**2** Hearken, my children, to Issachar your father; give ear to the words of him who is beloved of the Lord.

**3** I was born the fifth son to Jacob, by way of hire of the mandrakes.

**4** For Reuben my brother brought in mandrakes from the field, and Rachel met him and took them.

**5** And Reuben wept, and at his voice Leah my mother came forth.

**6** Now these were sweet-smelling apples which were produced in the land of Haran below a ravine of water.

**7** And Rachel said: I will not give them to thee, but they shall be to me instead of children.

**8** For the Lord hath despised me, and I have not borne children to Jacob.

**9** Now the mandrakes were two in number, and Leah said to Rachel: Let it suffice thee that thou hast taken my husband; wilt thou take these also?

**10** And Rachel said to her: Thou shalt have Jacob this night for the mandrakes of thy son.

**11** And Leah said to her: Grudge me not, for it is sufficient for me that the Lord hath looked upon me.

**12** And Rachel took them, and gave them to her mother, and her mother gave them to Rachel.

**13** Know, therefore, my children, that I walked in simplicity of heart before the Lord, and in singleness of heart I wrought.

**14** And I was a husbandman for my father and my brethren, and I brought in the fruits of the field according to their season.

**15** And my father blessed me, for he saw that I walked in rectitude before him.

**16** And I was not a busybody in my doings, nor envious and malicious against my neighbour.

**17** I never slandered any one, nor did I censure the life of any man, walking as I did in singleness of eye.

**18** Therefore, when I was thirty-five years old, I took to myself a wife, for my labour wore away my strength, and I never thought upon pleasure with women; but owing to my toil, sleep overcame me.

**19** And my father always rejoiced in my simplicity, for I offered through the priest to the Lord all first-fruits; then to my father also.

**20** And the Lord increased ten thousandfold His benefits in my hands; and also Jacob, my father, knew that God aided my singleness.

**21** For on all the poor and oppressed I bestowed the good things of the earth in the singleness of my heart.
