---
title: "Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs - Chapter 7"
scripture: "testaments-of-twelve-patriarchs"
chapter: 7
---

**1** The copy of the Testament of Zebulun, the sixth son of Jacob and Leah, which he spake to his sons before he died.

**2** Hearken to me, ye sons of Zebulun, attend to the words of your father.

**3** I, Zebulun, was born a good gift to my parents. For when I was born my father was increased very exceedingly, both in flocks and herds, when with the straked rods he had his portion.

**4** I am not conscious that I have sinned all my days, save in thought.

**5** Nor yet do I remember that I have done any iniquity, except the sin of ignorance which I committed against Joseph; for I covenanted with my brethren, because they had all agreed that if any one declared the secret, he should be slain with the sword.

**6** But when they wished to kill him, I adjured them much with tears not to be guilty of this sin.

**7** For Simeon and Gad came against Joseph to kill him, and he said unto them with tears: Pity me, my brethren, have mercy upon the bowels of Jacob our father: lay not upon me your hands to shed innocent blood, for I have not sinned against you.

**8** And if indeed I have sinned, with chastisement chastise me, my brethren, but lay not upon me your hand, for the sake of Jacob our father.

**9** And as he spoke these words, wailing as he did so, I was unable to bear his lamentations, and began to weep, and my liver was poured out, and all the substance of my bowels was loosened.

**10** And I wept with Joseph, and my heart sounded, and the joints of my body trembled, and I was not able to stand.

**11** And when Joseph saw me weeping with him, and them coming against him to slay him, he fled behind me, beseeching them.

**12** But meanwhile Reuben arose and said: Come, my brethren, let us not slay him, but let us cast him into one of these dry pits.

**13** For in the writing of the law of Enoch it says that ye shall not destroy innocent blood, and ye shall perish.

**14** And Dan said to him: Let us cast him into the pit, which is in the desert, and let us depart.

**15** And we did so, until we sold him to the Ishmaelites.

**16** In his price I had no share, my children. But Simeon and Gad and six other of our brethren took the price of Joseph and bought sandals for themselves, and their wives, and their children, saying:

**17** We will not eat of it, for it is the price of our brother's blood, but we will assuredly tread it under foot, because he said that he would be king over us, and so let us see what his dreams mean.

**18** Therefore it is written in the law of Moses, that whosoever will not raise up seed to his brother, his sandal should be unloosed, and they should spit in his face.
