---
title: "Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs - Chapter 8"
scripture: "testaments-of-twelve-patriarchs"
chapter: 8
---

**1** The copy of the Testament of Dan, the seventh son of Jacob and Bilhah, which he spake to his sons in his last days.

**2** In the hundred and twenty-fifth year of his life, he called together his family and said:

**3** Hearken to my words, ye sons of Dan; and give heed to the words of your father.

**4** I have proved in my heart, and in my whole life, that truth with just dealing is good and well pleasing to God, and that lying and anger are evil, because they teach man all wickedness.

**5** I confess, therefore, this day to you, my children, that in my heart I resolved on the death of Joseph my brother, the true and good man.

**6** And I rejoiced that he was sold, because his father loved him more than us.

**7** For the spirit of jealousy and vainglory said to me: Thou thyself also art his son.

**8** And one of the spirits of Beliar stirred me up, saying: Take this sword, and with it slay Joseph; so shall thy father love thee when he is dead.

**9** Now this is the spirit of anger that persuaded me to crush Joseph as a leopard crusheth a kid.

**10** But the God of my fathers did not suffer him to fall into my hands, so that I should find him alone and slay him, and cause a second tribe to be destroyed in Israel.

**11** And now, my children, behold I am dying, and I tell you of a truth, that unless ye keep yourselves from the spirit of lying and of anger, and love truth and longsuffering, ye shall perish.

**12** For anger is blindness, and does not suffer one to see the face of any man with truth.

**13** For though it be a father or a mother, he behaveth towards them as enemies; though it be a brother, he knoweth him not; though it be a prophet of the Lord, he disobeyeth him; though a righteous man, he regardeth him not; though a friend, he doth not acknowledge him.

**14** For the spirit of anger encompasseth him with the net of deceit, and blindeth his eyes, and through lying darkeneth his mind, and giveth him its own peculiar vision.

**15** And wherewith encompasseth it his eyes? With hatred of heart, so as to be envious of his brother.

**16** For anger is an evil thing, my children, for it troubleth even the soul itself.

**17** And it seizeth the body of the angry man, and maketh it its own, and over his soul it getteth the mastery, and it bestoweth upon the body power that it may work all iniquity.

**18** And when the body doeth all these things, the soul justifieth what is done, since it seeth not aright.

**19** Therefore he that is wrathful, if he be a mighty man, hath a threefold power in his anger: one by the help of his servants; and a second by his wealth, whereby he persuadeth and overcometh wrongfully; and thirdly, having his own natural power, he worketh thereby the evil thing.
