---
title: "Mozi - Chapter 2"
scripture: "mozi"
chapter: 2
---

**1** Master Mo said: The purpose of the righteous man in power is to promote the benefit of the world and to eliminate its harm.

**2** What are the benefits of the world, and what are its harms? Master Mo said: Mutual attacks among states, mutual usurpation among houses, mutual injuries among individuals; the lack of grace and loyalty between ruler and ruled, the lack of affection and filial piety between father and son, the lack of harmony between elder and younger brother -- these are the major harms in the world.

**3** And whence do these harms arise? Do they arise out of loving others? Certainly not. They arise out of hating others.

**4** Those in the world who hate others, do they love or hate them universally? Of course they hate them partially. Therefore it is the partiality that is wrong.

**5** Now Master Mo said: Partiality is to be replaced by universality.

**6** But how is partiality to be replaced by universality? Master Mo said: When everyone regards the states of others as he regards his own, who will attack the others' state? One would regard others as oneself.

**7** When everyone regards the cities of others as he regards his own, who will seize the others' cities? One would regard others as oneself.

**8** When everyone regards the houses of others as he regards his own, who will disturb the others' houses? One would regard others as oneself.

**9** Now, when states and cities do not attack and seize each other, and when clans and individuals do not disturb and harm each other, is this a harm to the world or a benefit? Of course it is a benefit.

**10** When we come to think about the cause of all these benefits, what has produced them? Have they come about from hating and injuring others? Of course not. They have come about from loving and benefiting others.

**11** If we should classify one by one all those in the world who love others and benefit others, shall we find them to be partial or universal? Of course they are universal. Now, since universal love is the source of all the great benefits in the world, therefore Master Mo said: Universal love is right.
