---
title: "Judith - Chapter 13"
scripture: "judith"
chapter: 13
---

**1** Now when the evening was come, his servants made haste to depart, and Bagoas shut his tent without, and dismissed the waiters from the presence of his lord; and they went to their beds: for they were all weary, because the feast had been long.

**2** And Judith was left alone in the tent, and Holofernes lying along upon his bed: for he was filled with wine.

**3** Now Judith had commanded her maid to stand without her bedchamber, and to wait for her coming forth, as she did daily: for she said she would go forth to her prayers, and she spake to Bagoas according to the same purpose.

**4** So all went forth and none was left in the bedchamber, neither little nor great. Then Judith, standing by his bed, said in her heart, O Lord God of all power, look at this present upon the works of mine hands for the exaltation of Jerusalem.

**5** For now is the time to help thine inheritance, and to execute thine enterprises to the destruction of the enemies which are risen against us.

**6** Then she came to the pillar of the bed, which was at Holofernes' head, and took down his fauchion from thence,

**7** And approached to his bed, and took hold of the hair of his head, and said, Strengthen me, O Lord God of Israel, this day.

**8** And she smote twice upon his neck with all her might, and she took away his head from him.

**9** And tumbled his body down from the bed, and pulled down the canopy from the pillars; and anon after she went forth, and gave Holofernes his head to her maid;

**10** And she put it in her bag of meat: so they twain went together according to their custom unto prayer: and when they passed the camp, they compassed the valley, and went up the mountain of Bethulia, and came to the gates thereof.
