---
title: "Judith - Chapter 2"
scripture: "judith"
chapter: 2
---

**1** And in the eighteenth year, the two and twentieth day of the first month, there was talk in the house of Nabuchodonosor king of the Assyrians that he should, as he said, avenge himself on all the earth.

**2** So he called unto him all his officers, and all his nobles, and communicated with them his secret counsel, and concluded the afflicting of the whole earth out of his own mouth.

**3** Then they decreed to destroy all flesh, that did not obey the commandment of his mouth.

**4** And when he had ended his counsel, Nabuchodonosor king of the Assyrians called Holofernes the chief captain of his army, which was next unto him, and said unto him.

**5** Thus saith the great king, the lord of the whole earth, Behold, thou shalt go forth from my presence, and take with thee men that trust in their own strength, of footmen an hundred and twenty thousand; and the number of horses with their riders, twelve thousand.

**6** And thou shalt go against all the west country, because they disobeyed my commandment.

**7** And thou shalt declare unto then, that they prepare for me earth and water: for I will go forth in my wrath against them and will cover the whole face of the earth with the feet of mine army, and I will give them for a spoil unto them:

**8** So that their slain shall fill their valleys and brooks and the river shall be filled with their dead, till it overflow:

**9** And I will lead them captives to the utmost parts of all the earth.

**10** Thou therefore shalt go forth and take beforehand for me all their coasts: and if they will yield themselves unto thee, thou shalt reserve them for me till the day of their punishment.

**11** But concerning them that rebel, let not thine eye spare them; but put them to the slaughter, and spoil them wheresoever thou goest.

**12** For as I live, and by the power of my kingdom, whatsoever I have spoken, that will I do by mine hand.

**13** And take thou heed that thou transgress none of the commandments of thy lord, but accomplish them fully, as I have commanded thee, and defer not to do them.
