---
title: "On the Origin of the World - Chapter 4"
scripture: "on-the-origin-of-world"
chapter: 4
---

**1** Then when the heavens had consolidated themselves along with their forces and all their administration, the prime parent became insolent. And he was honored by all the army of angels.

**2** Now when the seven rulers were cast down from their heavens upon the earth, they made for themselves angels — numerous, demonic — to serve them. And the latter instructed mankind in many kinds of error and magic and potions and worship of idols and spilling of blood.

**3** Then Justice created Paradise, being beautiful and being outside the orbit of the moon and the orbit of the sun in the Land of Wantonness, in the East in the midst of the stones.

**4** Now the tree of eternal life, as it appeared by God's will, is in the north of Paradise, so that it might make eternal the souls of the pure, who shall come forth from the modeled forms of the chief rulers at the consummation of the age. Now the color of the tree of life is like the sun. And its branches are beautiful. Its leaves are like those of the cypress. Its fruit is like a bunch of grapes when it is white.

**5** Then the consummation of everything will come to pass. For this is the nature of the consummation, that it will dissolve all the authorities, who will become completely like what never existed, as though they had never existed. And the works of the great evil deceiver will be dissolved. And he himself will perish. And the light will overcome the darkness, and the obliteration of evil will be as final as what never existed.
