---
title: "Second Treatise of the Great Seth - Chapter 3"
scripture: "second-treatise-of-great-seth"
chapter: 3
---

**1** After we went forth from our home, and came down to this world, and came into being in the world in bodies, we were hated and persecuted, not only by those who are ignorant, but also by those who think they are advancing the name of Christ.

**2** Since they were unknowingly empty, not knowing who they are, they are like dumb animals. They persecuted those who have been liberated by me, since they hate them.

**3** These will be shut up in the prison that was made for them, in the darkness and in the chain. But they have indeed erred, not having known the mystery.

**4** But the Son of the Majesty was not afflicted. He passed through every place, and he did not give them any occasion against himself.

**5** There is an assembly of those in the aeon who are united with the unbegotten Father and the Mother of the All. These constitute the Pleroma.

**6** For from the beginning, the apostles did not know Jesus through revelation. They thought that he was born through the seed of the rulers.

**7** But through the Spirit of Truth they knew him. For this Christ passes through the midst of them all. He it is who was the light which shone upon them.

**8** He it is who manifested himself through an ineffable mouth. He it is who is truly Life. He it is who is the king, whose kingdom no dominion can take away.

**9** For it was the plan of the Father of Truth from the beginning, when He sent me into the world, to accomplish His will.

**10** And I reconciled the things of the height with the things of the depth, and the things of the left with the things of the right, by the revelation which I gave them.
