---
title: "Apocalypse of Peter (Gnostic) Section 1"
scripture: "apocalypse-of-peter-gnostic"
chapter: 1
---

**1** As the Savior was sitting in the temple in the three hundredth year of the covenant and the agreement of the tenth pillar, and being satisfied with the number of the glory, he said to me:

**2** Peter, blessed are those above belonging to the Father, who revealed life to those who are from the life, through me, since I reminded them, they who are built on what is strong, that they may hear my word and distinguish words of unrighteousness and transgression of law from righteousness.

**3** For I say this to you so that you may know the nature of the mystery. Take heed that you do not reveal it to the sons of this age.

**4** For in those days blasphemies will come upon you, and many shall receive a false teaching and shall teach blind men in a blind fashion.

**5** For when they have spoken against the truth, they shall join themselves with one another, and they shall come in the name that belongs to a dead man, thinking that they will become pure.

**6** But they shall become greatly defiled, and they shall fall into a name of error and into the hand of an evil, cunning man and a manifold dogma, and they will be ruled heretically.

**7** For some of them will blaspheme the truth and proclaim evil teaching. And they will say evil things against each other. Some will be named: those who stand in the strength of the archons, of a man and a naked woman who is manifold and subject to much suffering.

**8** And those who say these things will ask about dreams; and if they say that a dream came from a demon worthy of their error, then they shall be given perdition instead of incorruption.

**9** For evil cannot produce good fruit. For the place from which each of them is produces that which is like itself; for not every soul is of the truth, nor of immortality.

**10** For every soul of these ages has death assigned to it, in our view, because it is always a slave. It obeys a desire that will cause its destruction in the nature of the counterfeit spirit.
