---
title: "Apocalypse of Peter (Gnostic) Section 2"
scripture: "apocalypse-of-peter-gnostic"
chapter: 2
---

**1** And I said: Master, what is it that you say to me? You whom they call the dead has become alive. What does this mean?

**2** He said to me: Peter, the human Jesus has become the living one! He whose nature has been transformed from servitude into lordship, from darkness into light, from mortality into immortality, and from slavery into freedom.

**3** And I saw him seemingly being seized by them. And I said: What do I see, O Lord? That it is you yourself whom they take, and that you are grasping me? Or who is this one, glad and laughing on the tree? And is it another one whose feet and hands they are striking?

**4** The Savior said to me: He whom you saw on the tree, glad and laughing, this is the living Jesus. But this one into whose hands and feet they drive the nails is his fleshly part, which is the substitute being put to shame, the one who came into being in his likeness.

**5** But look at him and me. And I, when I had looked, said: Lord, no one is looking at you. Let us flee this place.

**6** But he said to me: I have told you: Leave the blind alone! And you, see how they do not know what they are saying. For the son of their glory instead of my servant, they have put to shame.

**7** And I saw someone about to approach us resembling him, even him who was laughing on the tree. And he was filled with a holy spirit, and he is the Savior.

**8** And there was a great, ineffable light around them, and the multitude of ineffable and invisible angels blessing them. And when I looked at him, the one who gives praise was revealed.

**9** And he said to me: Be strong, for you are the one to whom these mysteries have been given, to know them through revelation, that he whom they crucified is the first-born, and the home of demons, and the stony vessel in which they dwell, of Elohim, of the cross which is under the law.

**10** But he who stands near him is the living Savior, the first in him, whom they seized and released, who stands joyfully looking at those who did him violence, while they are divided among themselves. Therefore he laughs at their lack of perception, knowing that they are born blind.
