---
title: "Odes of Solomon - Ode 2"
scripture: "odes-of-solomon"
chapter: 2
---

**1** He is my joy, O Lord, and my course is towards thee, because this way of thine is beautiful.

**2** For there is a Helper for me, the Lord. He has generously shown himself to me in his simplicity, because his kindness has diminished his grandeur.

**3** He became like me, that I might receive him. In form he was considered like me, that I might put him on.

**4** And I trembled not when I saw him, because he was gracious to me.

**5** Like my nature he became, that I might understand him. And like my form, that I might not turn away from him.

**6** The Father of knowledge is the Word of knowledge.

**7** He who created wisdom is wiser than his works.

**8** And he who created me when yet I was not knew what I should do when I came into being.

**9** On account of this he was gracious to me in his abundant grace, and allowed me to ask from him and to benefit from his sacrifice.

**10** For he it is who is incorrupt, the perfection of the worlds and their Father.

**11** He has allowed him to appear to those that are his own, in order that they may recognize him that made them, and not suppose that they came of themselves.

**12** For towards knowledge he has set his way; he has widened it and lengthened it and brought it to complete perfection.

**13** And has set over it the traces of his light, and it proceeded from the beginning until the end.

**14** For by him he was served, and he was well pleased by the Son.

**15** And because of his salvation he will possess everything. And the Most High will be known by his holy ones.

**16** To announce to those that have songs of the coming of the Lord, that they may go forth to meet him and may sing to him, with joy and with the harp of many tones.

**17** The Seers shall go before him, and they shall be seen before him.

**18** And they shall praise the Lord in his love, because he is near and doth see.

**19** And hatred shall be removed from the earth, and with jealousy it shall be drowned.

**20** For ignorance was destroyed upon it, because the knowledge of the Lord arrived upon it.

**21** Let the singers sing the grace of the Lord Most High, and let them bring their songs.

**22** And their heart shall be like the day, and their gentle voices like the majestic beauty of the Lord.

**23** And let there be nothing that breathes without knowledge, nor any that is dumb.

**24** For he gave a mouth to his creation: to open the voice of the mouth towards him, and to praise him.

**25** Confess his power and declare his grace. Hallelujah.
