---
title: "Odes of Solomon - Ode 6"
scripture: "odes-of-solomon"
chapter: 6
---

**1** As the hand moves over the harp, and the strings speak, so the Spirit of the Lord speaks in my members, and I speak by his love.

**2** For he destroys whatever is alien, and everything is of the Lord.

**3** For thus it was from the beginning, and will be until the end. So that nothing shall be contrary, and nothing shall rise up against him.

**4** The Lord has multiplied his knowledge, and was zealous that those things should be known which by his grace have been given to us.

**5** And his praise he gave us on account of his name; our spirits praise his Holy Spirit.

**6** For there went forth a stream, and it became a river great and broad; indeed it carried away everything, and it shattered and brought it to the Temple.

**7** And the barriers which were built by men were not able to restrain it, nor even the arts of those who habitually restrain waters.

**8** For it spread over the surface of the whole earth, and it filled everything.

**9** Then all the thirsty upon the earth drank, and thirst was quenched and extinguished.

**10** For from the Most High the drink was given.

**11** Blessed therefore are the ministers of that drink, who have been entrusted with his water.

**12** They have refreshed the parched lips, and have aroused the will that was enfeebled.

**13** And souls that were near departing, they have held back from death.

**14** And limbs that had fallen, they have restored and set up.

**15** They gave strength for their coming, and light for their eyes.

**16** Because everyone recognized them as the Lord's, and lived by the living water of eternity. Hallelujah.
