---
title: "Odes of Solomon - Ode 7"
scripture: "odes-of-solomon"
chapter: 7
---

**1** As the impulse of anger against evil, so is the impulse of joy over what is lovely, and brings in of its fruits without restraint.

**2** My joy is the Lord and my impulse is toward him; this way of mine is beautiful.

**3** For I have a Helper, the Lord. He has caused me to know himself generously in his simplicity, because his kindness has diminished his greatness.

**4** He became like me in order that I might receive him; he was reckoned like myself in order that I might put him on.

**5** And I did not tremble when I saw him, for he is my grace.

**6** Like my nature he became, that I might learn him, and like my form, that I might not turn away from him.

**7** The Father of knowledge is the Word of knowledge.

**8** He who created wisdom is wiser than his works, and he who created me before I existed knew what I would do when I came into existence.

**9** Because of this he had pity on me in his abundant mercy, and granted me to ask from him and to receive from his sacrifice.

**10** For he is incorruptible, the fullness of the ages and the Father of them.

**11** He has given him to be seen by those who are his, so that they may know him who made them, and not think that they came into being by themselves.

**12** For knowledge he has appointed as its way; he has widened it and extended it, and brought it to full completion.

**13** And he has set over it the traces of his light, and I walked therein from the beginning until the end.

**14** For by him it was wrought, and he rested in the Son and was pleased by him.

**15** And because of his salvation he shall possess everything. And the Most High shall be known in his saints.

**16** To announce to those who have songs of the coming of the Lord, that they should go forth to meet him and should sing to him with joy and with the harp of many tones.

**17** The seers shall come before him, and they shall be seen before him, and they shall praise the Lord for his love; for he is near and he sees.

**18** And hatred shall be taken from the earth, and along with jealousy it shall be drowned.

**19** For ignorance has been destroyed, because the knowledge of the Lord has arrived.

**20** They who make songs shall sing the grace of the Lord Most High; and they shall offer their songs, and their heart shall be like the day, and like the excellent beauty of the Lord their pleasant song.

**21** And there shall neither be anything that is without life, nor anything without knowledge or dumb.

**22** For he has given a mouth to his creation, to open the voice of the mouth toward him, to praise him.

**23** Confess his power, and show forth his grace. Hallelujah.
