---
title: "The Analects Book XI"
scripture: "analects"
chapter: 11
---

**1** The Master said, "The men of former times in the matter of ceremonies and music were rustics, it is said, while the men of these latter times, in ceremonies and music, are accomplished gentlemen."

**2** "If I have occasion to use them, I follow the men of former times."

**3** The Master said, "Of those who were with me in Ch'an and Ts'ai, there are none to be found to enter my door."

**4** Distinguished for their virtuous principles and practice, there were Yen Yuan, Min Tsze-ch'ien, Zan Po-niu, and Chung-kung; for their ability in speech, Tsai Wo and Tsze-kung; for their administrative talents, Zan Yu and Chi Lu; for their literary acquirements, Tsze-yu and Tsze-hsia.

**5** The Master said, "Hui gave me no assistance. There was nothing that I said in which he did not delight."

**6** The Master said, "Filial indeed is Min Tsze-ch'ien! Other people say nothing of him different from the report of his parents and brothers."

**7** Nan Jung kept repeating the lines about a white sceptre. Confucius gave him the daughter of his elder brother to wife.

**8** Chi K'ang asked which of the disciples loved to learn. Confucius replied to him, "There was Yen Hui; he loved to learn. Unfortunately his appointed time was short, and he died. Now there is no one who loves to learn, as he did."

**9** When Yen Yuan died, Yen Lu asked the Master to give him his carriage to sell for an outer coffin. The Master said, "Every one calls his son his son, whether he has talents or has not talents. There was Li; when he died, he had a coffin but no outer coffin. I would not walk on foot to give him an outer shell. Having followed in the rear of the great officers, it is not proper that I should walk on foot."

**10** When Yen Yuan died, the Master said, "Alas! Heaven is destroying me! Heaven is destroying me!"

**11** When Yen Yuan died, the Master bewailed him exceedingly, and the disciples who were with him said, "Master, your grief is excessive!" "Is it excessive?" said he. "If I am not to mourn bitterly for this man, for whom should I mourn?"

**12** When Yen Yuan died, the disciples wished to give him a great funeral, and the Master said, "You may not do so." The disciples did bury him in great style.

**13** The Master said, "Hui behaved towards me as his father. I have not been able to treat him as my son. It is not I who have done this. It is you, my children."

**14** Chi Lu asked about serving the spirits of the dead. The Master said, "While you are not able to serve men, how can you serve their spirits?" Chi Lu added, "I venture to ask about death?" He was answered, "While you do not know life, how can you know about death?"

**15** The disciple Min was standing by his side, looking bland and precise; Tsze-lu, looking bold and soldierly; Zan Yu and Tsze-kung, with a free and straightforward manner. The Master was pleased.

**16** He said, "Yu, there—he will not die a natural death."

**17** The people of Lu were going to rebuild the Long Treasury. Min Tsze-ch'ien said, "Suppose it were to be repaired after its old style;—why must it be altered and made anew?" The Master said, "This man seldom speaks; when he does, he is sure to hit the point."

**18** The Master said, "What has the lute of Yu to do in my door?" The other disciples began not to respect Tsze-lu. The Master said, "Yu has ascended to the hall, though he has not yet passed into the inner apartments."

**19** Tsze-kung asked which of the two, Shih or Shang, was the superior. The Master said, "Shih goes beyond the due mean, and Shang does not come up to it."

**20** "Then," said Tsze-kung, "the superiority is with Shih, I suppose." The Master said, "To go beyond is as wrong as to fall short."

**21** The head of the Chi family was richer than the Duke of Chau had been, and yet Ch'iu collected his imposts for him, and increased his wealth. The Master said, "He is no disciple of mine. My little children, beat the drum and assail him."

**22** Tsze-lu asked, "Should I immediately carry into practice what I hear?" The Master said, "There are your father and elder brothers to be consulted;—how can you immediately carry into practice what you hear?"

**23** Zan Yu asked the same, "Should I immediately carry into practice what I hear?" The Master answered, "Immediately carry into practice what you hear."

**24** Kung-hsi Hwa said, "Yu asked whether he should carry immediately into practice what he heard, and you said, 'There are your father and elder brothers to be consulted.' Ch'iu asked whether he should immediately carry into practice what he heard, and you said, 'Carry it immediately into practice.' I, Ch'ih, am perplexed, and venture to ask you for an explanation." The Master said, "Ch'iu is retiring and slow; therefore I urged him forward. Yu has more than his own share of energy; therefore I kept him back."

**25** Tsze-lu, Tsang Hsi, Zan Yu, and Kung-hsi Hwa were sitting by the Master. He said to them, "Though I am a day or so older than you, do not think of that. From day to day you say, 'We are not known.' If some ruler were to know you, what would you like to do?"

**26** Tsze-lu hastily and lightly replied, "Suppose the case of a State of ten thousand chariots; let it be straitened between other large States; let it be suffering from invading armies; and to this let there be added a famine in corn and in all vegetables:—if I were intrusted with the government of it, in three years' time I could make the people to be bold, and to recognize the rules of righteous conduct." The Master smiled at him.
