---
title: "The Analects Book III"
scripture: "analects"
chapter: 3
---

**1** Confucius said of the head of the Chi family, who had eight rows of pantomimes in his area, "If he can bear to do this, what may he not bear to do?"

**2** The three families used the Yung ode, while the vessels were being removed, at the conclusion of the sacrifice. The Master said, "'Assisting are the princes;—the son of heaven looks profound and grave';—what application can these words have in the hall of the three families?"

**3** The Master said, "If a man be without the virtues proper to humanity, what has he to do with the rites of propriety? If a man be without the virtues proper to humanity, what has he to do with music?"

**4** Lin Fang asked what was the first thing to be attended to in ceremonies. The Master said, "A great question indeed! In festive ceremonies, it is better to be sparing than extravagant. In the ceremonies of mourning, it is better that there be deep sorrow than a minute attention to observances."

**5** The Master said, "The rude tribes of the east and north have their princes, and are not like the States of our great land which are without them."

**6** The chief of the Chi family was about to sacrifice to the T'ai mountain. The Master said to Zan Yu, "Can you not save him from this?" He answered, "I cannot." The Master said, "Alas! will you say that the T'ai mountain is not so discerning as Lin Fang?"

**7** The Master said, "The student of virtue has no contentions. If it be said he cannot avoid them, shall this be in archery? But he bows complaisantly to his competitors; thus he ascends the hall, descends, and exacts the forfeit of drinking. In his contention, he is still the superior man."

**8** Tsze-hsia asked, saying, "What is the meaning of the passage—'The pretty dimples of her artful smile! The well-defined black and white of her eye! The plain ground for the colours?'" The Master said, "The business of laying on the colours follows the preparation of the plain ground."

**9** "Then manners are a secondary thing?" The Master said, "It is Shang who can bring out my meaning. Now I can begin to talk about the odes with him."

**10** The Master said, "At the great sacrifice, after the pouring out of the libation, I have no wish to look on."

**11** Some one asked the meaning of the great sacrifice. The Master said, "I do not know. He who knew its meaning would find it as easy to govern the kingdom as to look on this"—pointing to his palm.

**12** He sacrificed to the dead, as if they were present. He sacrificed to the spirits, as if the spirits were present.

**13** The Master said, "I consider my not being present at the sacrifice, as if I did not sacrifice."

**14** Wang-sun Chia asked, saying, "What is the meaning of the saying, 'It is better to pay court to the furnace than to the south-west corner?'" The Master said, "Not so. He who offends against Heaven has none to whom he can pray."

**15** The Master said, "Chau had the advantage of viewing the two past dynasties. How complete and elegant are its regulations! I follow Chau."

**16** The Master, when he entered the grand temple, asked about everything. Some one said, "Who says that the son of the man of Tsau knows the rules of propriety! He has entered the grand temple and asks about everything." The Master heard the remark, and said, "This is a rule of propriety."

**17** The Master said, "In archery it is not going through the leather which is the principal thing;—because people's strength is not equal. This was the old rule."

**18** Tsze-kung wished to do away with the offering of a sheep connected with the inauguration of the first day of each month. The Master said, "Ts'ze, you love the sheep; I love the ceremony."

**19** The Master said, "The full observance of the rules of propriety in serving one's prince is accounted by people to be flattery."

**20** The Duke Ting asked how a prince should employ his ministers, and how ministers should serve their prince. Confucius replied, "A prince should employ his minister according to the rules of propriety; ministers should serve their prince with faithfulness."

**21** The Master said, "The Kwan Ts'eu is expressive of enjoyment without being licentious, and of grief without being hurtfully excessive."

**22** The Duke Ai asked Tsai Wo about the altars of the spirits of the land. Tsai Wo replied, "The Hsia sovereign planted the pine tree about them; the men of the Yin planted the cypress; and the men of the Chau planted the chestnut tree, meaning thereby to cause the people to be in awe."

**23** When the Master heard it, he said, "Things that are done, it is needless to speak about; things that have had their course, it is needless to remonstrate about; things that are past, it is needless to blame."

**24** The Master said, "The ruler of Wei is like a man whose house is in disorder, yet who insists on going everywhere to set other houses in order."

**25** The Master said of the Shao that it was perfectly beautiful and also perfectly good. He said of the Wu that it was perfectly beautiful but not perfectly good.

**26** The Master said, "High station filled without indulgent generosity; ceremonies performed without reverence; mourning conducted without sorrow;—wherewith should I contemplate such ways?"
