---
title: "The Analects Book V"
scripture: "analects"
chapter: 5
---

**1** The Master said of Kung-ye Ch'ang that he might be wived; although he was put in bonds, he had not been guilty of any crime. Accordingly, he gave him his own daughter to wife.

**2** The Master said of Nan Yung that if the country were well governed he would not be out of office, and if it were ill-governed, he would escape punishment and disgrace. He gave him the daughter of his own elder brother to wife.

**3** The Master said of Tsze-chien, "Of superior virtue indeed is such a man! If there were not virtuous men in Lu, how could this man have acquired this character?"

**4** Tsze-kung asked, "What do you say of me, Ts'ze?" The Master said, "You are a utensil." "What utensil?" "A gemmed sacrificial utensil."

**5** Some one said, "Yung is truly virtuous, but he is not ready with his tongue." The Master said, "What is the good of being ready with the tongue? They who encounter men with smartness of speech for the most part procure themselves hatred. I know not whether he be truly virtuous, but why should he show readiness of the tongue?"

**6** The Master was wishing Ch'i-tiao K'ai to enter on official employment. He replied, "I am not yet able to rest in the assurance of THIS." The Master was pleased.

**7** The Master said, "My doctrines make no way. I will get upon a raft, and float about on the sea. He that will accompany me will be Yu, I dare say." Tsze-lu, hearing this, was glad, upon which the Master said, "Yu is fonder of daring than I am. He does not exercise his judgment upon matters."

**8** Mang Wu asked about Tsze-lu, whether he was perfectly virtuous. The Master said, "I do not know." He asked again, and the Master said, "In a kingdom of a thousand chariots, Yu might be employed to manage the military levies, but I do not know whether he be perfectly virtuous."

**9** "And what do you say of Ch'iu?" The Master replied, "In a city of a thousand families, or a clan of a hundred chariots, Ch'iu might be employed as governor, but I do not know whether he is perfectly virtuous."

**10** "And what do you say of Ch'ih?" The Master replied, "With his sash girt and standing in a court, Ch'ih might be employed to converse with the visitors and guests, but I do not know whether he is perfectly virtuous."

**11** The Master said to Tsze-kung, "Which do you consider superior, yourself or Hui?" Tsze-kung replied, "How dare I compare myself with Hui? Hui hears one point and knows all about a subject; I hear one point and know a second."

**12** The Master said, "You are not equal to him. I grant you, you are not equal to him."

**13** Tsai Yu being asleep during the daytime, the Master said, "Rotten wood cannot be carved; a wall of dirty earth will not receive the trowel. This Yu!—what is the use of my reproving him?"

**14** The Master said, "At first, my way with men was to hear their words, and give them credit for their conduct. Now my way is to hear their words, and look at their conduct. It is from Yu that I have learned to make this change."

**15** The Master said, "I have not seen a firm and unbending man." Some one replied, "There is Shan Ch'ang." "Ch'ang is under the influence of his passions; how can he be pronounced firm and unbending?"

**16** Tsze-kung said, "What I do not wish men to do to me, I also wish not to do to men." The Master said, "Ts'ze, you have not attained to that."

**17** Tsze-kung said, "The Master's personal displays of his principles and ordinary descriptions of them may be heard. His discourses about man's nature, and the way of Heaven, cannot be heard."

**18** When Tsze-lu heard anything, if he had not yet succeeded in carrying it into practice, he was only afraid lest he should hear something else.

**19** Tsze-kung asked, saying, "On what ground did Kung-wan get that title of Wan?" The Master said, "He was of an active nature and yet fond of learning, and he was not ashamed to ask and learn of his inferiors!—on those grounds he has been styled Wan."

**20** The Master said of Tsze-ch'an that he had four of the characteristics of a superior man:—in his conduct of himself, he was humble; in serving his superior, he was respectful; in nourishing the people, he was kind; in ordering the people, he was just.

**21** The Master said, "I once spent a whole day without eating, and a whole night without sleeping—occupied with thinking. It was of no use. The better plan is to learn."

**22** The Master said, "The commander of the forces of a large State may be carried off, but the will of even a common man cannot be taken from him."

**23** The Master said, "Is any one able for one day to apply his strength to virtue? I have not seen the case in which his strength would be insufficient."

**24** The Master said, "Let the will be set on the path of duty. Let every attainment in what is good be firmly grasped. Let perfect virtue be accorded with. Let relaxation and enjoyment be found in the polite arts."
