---
title: "The Analects Book VIII"
scripture: "analects"
chapter: 8
---

**1** The Master said, "T'ai-po may be said to have reached the highest point of virtuous action. Thrice he declined the kingdom, and the people in ignorance of his motives could not express their approbation of his conduct."

**2** The Master said, "Respectfulness, without the rules of propriety, becomes laborious bustle; carefulness, without the rules of propriety, becomes timidity; boldness, without the rules of propriety, becomes insubordination; straightforwardness, without the rules of propriety, becomes rudeness."

**3** "When those who are in high stations perform well all their duties to their relations, the people are aroused to virtue. When old friends are not neglected by them, the people are preserved from meanness."

**4** The philosopher Tsang being ill, he called to him the disciples of his school, and said, "Uncover my feet, uncover my hands. It is said in the Book of Poetry, 'We should be apprehensive and cautious, as if on the brink of a deep gulf, as if treading on thin ice,' and so have I been. But now and hereafter, I know my escape from all injury to my person. O ye, my little children."

**5** The philosopher Tsang being ill, Mang Chang went to ask how he was. Tsang said, "When a bird is about to die, its notes are mournful; when a man is about to die, his words are good."

**6** "There are three principles of conduct which the man of high rank should consider specially important:—that in his deportment and manner he keep from violence and heedlessness; that in regulating his countenance he keep near to sincerity; and that in his words and tones he keep far from lowness and impropriety."

**7** The philosopher Tsang said, "The officer may not be without breadth of mind and vigorous endurance. His burden is heavy and his course is long."

**8** "Perfect virtue is the burden which he considers it is his to sustain;—is it not heavy? Only with death does his course stop;—is it not long?"

**9** The Master said, "It is by the Odes that the mind is aroused."

**10** "It is by the Rules of Propriety that the character is established."

**11** "It is from Music that the finish is received."

**12** The Master said, "The people may be made to follow a path of action, but they may not be made to understand it."

**13** The Master said, "The man who is fond of daring and is dissatisfied with poverty, will proceed to insubordination. So will the man who is not virtuous, when you carry your dislike of him to an extreme."

**14** The Master said, "If a man have talents as admirable as those of the Duke of Chau, yet if he be proud and niggardly, those other things are really not worth being looked at."

**15** The Master said, "He who is not in any particular office has nothing to do with plans for the administration of its duties."

**16** The Master said, "It is not easy to find a man who has learned for three years without coming to be good."

**17** The Master said, "Learn as if you could not reach your object, and were always fearing also lest you should lose it."

**18** The Master said, "How majestic was the manner in which Shun and Yu held possession of the empire, as if it were nothing to them!"

**19** The Master said, "Great indeed was Yao as a sovereign! How majestic was he! It is only Heaven that is grand, and only Yao corresponded to it. How vast was his virtue! The people could find no name for it."

**20** "How majestic was he in the works which he accomplished! How glorious in the elegant regulations which he instituted!"

**21** Shun had five ministers, and the empire was well governed. King Wu said, "I have ten able ministers." Confucius said, "Is not the saying that talents are difficult to find, true?"
