---
title: "Dhammapada - Chapter 15"
scripture: "dhammapada"
chapter: 15
---

**197** Let us live happily then, not hating those who hate us! among men who hate us let us dwell free from hatred!

**198** Let us live happily then, free from ailments among the ailing! among men who are ailing let us dwell free from ailments!

**199** Let us live happily then, free from greed among the greedy! among men who are greedy let us dwell free from greed!

**200** Let us live happily then, though we call nothing our own! We shall be like the bright gods, feeding on happiness!

**201** Victory breeds hatred, for the conquered is unhappy. He who has given up both victory and defeat, he, the contented, is happy.

**202** There is no fire like passion; there is no losing throw like hatred; there is no pain like this body; there is no happiness higher than rest.

**203** Hunger is the worst of diseases, the body the greatest of pains; if one knows this truly, that is Nirvana, the highest happiness.

**204** Health is the greatest of gifts, contentedness the best riches; trust is the best of relationships, Nirvana the highest happiness.

**205** He who has tasted the sweetness of solitude and tranquillity, is free from fear and free from sin, while he tastes the sweetness of drinking in the law.

**206** The sight of the elect is good, to live with them is always happiness; if a man does not see fools, he will be truly happy.

**207** He who walks in the company of fools suffers a long way; company with fools, as with an enemy, is always painful; company with the wise is pleasure, like meeting with kinsfolk.

**208** Therefore, one ought to follow the wise, the intelligent, the learned, the much enduring, the dutiful, the elect; one ought to follow a good and wise man, as the moon follows the path of the stars.
