---
title: "Dhammapada - Chapter 7"
scripture: "dhammapada"
chapter: 7
---

**90** There is no suffering for him who has finished his journey, and abandoned grief, who has freed himself on all sides, and thrown off all fetters.

**91** They depart with their thoughts well-collected, they are not happy in their abode; like swans who have left their lake, they leave their house and home.

**92** Men who have no riches, who live on recognised food, who have perceived void and unconditioned freedom, their path is difficult to understand, like that of birds in the air.

**93** He whose appetites are stilled, who is not absorbed in enjoyment, who has perceived void and unconditioned freedom, his path is difficult to understand, like that of birds in the air.

**94** The gods even envy him whose senses, like horses well broken in by the driver, have been subdued, who is free from pride, and free from appetites.

**95** Such a one who does his duty is tolerant like the earth, like Indra's bolt; he is like a lake without mud; no new births are in store for him.

**96** His thought is quiet, quiet are his word and deed, when he has obtained freedom by true knowledge, when he has thus become a quiet man.

**97** The man who is free from credulity, but knows the uncreated, who has cut all ties, removed all temptations, renounced all desires, he is the greatest of men.

**98** In a hamlet or in a forest, in the deep water or on the dry land, wherever venerable persons dwell, that place is delightful.

**99** Forests are delightful; where the world finds no delight, there the passionless will find delight, for they look not for pleasures.
