---
title: "Apocalypse of Adam Section 1"
scripture: "apocalypse-of-adam"
chapter: 1
---

**1** The revelation which Adam taught his son Seth in the seven hundredth year, saying: Listen to my words, my son Seth.

**2** When God had created me out of the earth, along with Eve your mother, I went about with her in a glory which she had seen in the aeon from which we had come forth.

**3** She taught me a word of knowledge of the eternal God. And we resembled the great eternal angels, for we were higher than the God who had created us and the powers with him, whom we did not know.

**4** Then God, the ruler of the aeons and the powers, divided us in wrath. Then we became two aeons. And the glory in our hearts left us, me and your mother Eve, along with the first knowledge that breathed within us.

**5** And glory fled from us; not from this aeon from which we had come forth, I and Eve your mother. But knowledge entered into the seed of great aeons.

**6** For this reason I myself have called you by the name of that man who is the seed of the great generation or from whom it comes. After those days the eternal knowledge of the God of truth withdrew from me and your mother Eve.

**7** Since that time we learned about dead things, like men. Then we recognized the God who had created us. For we were not strangers to his powers. And we served him in fear and slavery.

**8** And after these things we became darkened in our hearts. Now I slept in the thought of my heart.

**9** And I saw three men before me whose likeness I was unable to recognize, since they were not from the powers of the God who had created us.

**10** They surpassed all glory and all men in appearance, shining and beautiful. And they said to me: Arise, Adam, from the sleep of death, and hear about the aeon and the seed of that man to whom life has come, who came from you and from Eve your mother.

**11** When I had heard these words from the great men who were standing before me, then we sighed, I and Eve, in our hearts.

**12** And the Lord, the God who had created us, stood before us. He said to us: Adam, why were you sighing in your heart? Do you not know that I am the God who created you? And I breathed into you a spirit of life as a living soul.

**13** Then darkness fell upon our eyes. Then the God who created us, he created a son from himself and Eve, your mother.

**14** I knew a sweet desire for your mother. Then the vigor of our eternal knowledge was destroyed in us, and weakness pursued us. Therefore the days of our life became few. For I knew that I had come under the authority of death.
