---
title: "Apocalypse of Adam Section 4"
scripture: "apocalypse-of-adam"
chapter: 4
---

**1** Then the peoples will cry out with a great voice, saying: Blessed is the soul of those men because they have known God with a knowledge of truth.

**2** They shall live forever, because they have not been corrupted by all the desires of the evil powers, but they have stood in his presence in a knowledge of God like light that has come forth from fire and blood.

**3** And concerning the illuminator, the first kingdom says of him: He came from a great aeon of light and glory.

**4** The second kingdom says about him: He came from a great prophet. And a bird came, took the child who was born, and brought him onto a high mountain. And he was nourished by the bird of heaven.

**5** The third kingdom says of him: He came from a virgin womb. He was cast out of his city, he and his mother; he was brought to a desert place. He was nourished there.

**6** The fourth kingdom says of him: He came from a virgin womb and was nourished in a garden of paradise. And all the powers of that generation served him.

**7** The fifth kingdom says of him: He came from a drop from heaven. He was thrown into the sea. The abyss received him, gave birth to him, and brought him to heaven.

**8** The sixth kingdom says: One from a flower was found in the midst of the great aeon. The angels of the God of the aeon nourished him and gave him glory. He came to the water.

**9** The seventh kingdom says of him: He is a drop. It came from heaven to earth. Dragons brought him down to caves. He became a child. A spirit came upon him and raised him to the place from which the drop had come.

**10** The eighth kingdom says of him: A cloud came upon the earth and enveloped a rock. He came from it. The angels who were above the cloud nourished him. He received glory and power there.

**11** The ninth kingdom says of him: From the nine Muses one separated away. She came to a high mountain and spent time seated there, so that she desired herself alone in order to become androgynous. She fulfilled her desire and became pregnant from her desire. He was born.

**12** The tenth kingdom says of him: His god loved a cloud of desire. He begot him in his hand and cast upon the cloud above him some of the drop, and he was born.

**13** The eleventh kingdom says: The father desired his own daughter. She herself became pregnant from her father. She cast her child out into a grave in the desert. The angel nourished him there.
