---
title: "Apocalypse of Adam Section 5"
scripture: "apocalypse-of-adam"
chapter: 5
---

**1** The twelfth kingdom says of him: He came from two luminaries. He was nourished there. He received glory and power.

**2** The thirteenth kingdom says of him: Every birth of their archon is a word. And this word received a mandate there. He received glory and power.

**3** And thus he came to the water, that the desire of those powers might be satisfied. But the generation without a king over it says: God chose him from all the aeons.

**4** He caused a knowledge of the undefiled one of truth to come to be in him. He said: Out of a foreign air, from a great aeon, the great illuminator came forth.

**5** And he made the generation of those men whom he had chosen for himself to shine, so that they could shine upon the whole aeon.

**6** Then the seed, those who will receive his name upon the water and that of them all, will fight against the power. And a cloud of darkness will come upon them.

**7** Then the peoples will cry out with a great voice: Blessed is the knowledge of the great aeons of the illuminators, for he came from holy seed. This is the seed of the great Seth, for the sons of Ham and Japheth will form twelve kingdoms, and their seed will enter into the kingdom of another.

**8** Then Sacla, the great angel, the great demon, said to those who are over the eighth heaven: I am God and there is no other beside me.

**9** But he was rebuked by the great generation of men, and it was said to him: You are wrong, Sacla, which means blind god. An immortal man of light has existed before you, and will appear among your modelled forms.

**10** He shall trample you in contempt as the potter's clay is trampled. And you will descend with your powers, you and your angels, down to the seven kingdoms.

**11** And in the last times, all the creation which came forth from the seed of the great Seth will know the truth and those who dwell upon the earth in truth, unto all the aeons of the aeons.

**12** These are the revelations which Adam made known to Seth his son, and his son taught his seed about them. This is the hidden knowledge of Adam, which he gave to Seth, which is the holy baptism of those who know the eternal knowledge through those born of the word and the imperishable illuminators, who came from the holy seed: Jesseus, Mazareus, Jessedekeus, the Living Water.
