---
title: "Three Steles of Seth - Chapter 2"
scripture: "three-steles-of-seth"
chapter: 2
---

**1** The second stele of Seth: Great is the first aeon, male virginal Barbelo, the first glory of the invisible Father, she who is called perfect.

**2** Thou hast first seen that the really truly pre-existent one is non-being. And from this one there appeared the first being and the first existence.

**3** Thou hast empowered, and thou art empowered. Thou hast first stood, and in every place thou hast appeared.

**4** For thou art from the One who is, and thou art an Invisible One of the three. Thou art a power, thou art a glory.

**5** In truth I call thee the greater one, and the all-knowing one, and the perfect one.

**6** Thou hast heard; thou hast heard. Thou hast saved; thou hast saved. We who were saved give thanks; we glorify always.

**7** We shall glorify thee, that we may be saved to everlasting salvation. We have been saved. We have seen thee by mind.

**8** Thou art all of them. Thou dost save them all, thou who wilt not be saved, nor hast been saved by them.

**9** For thou hast commanded us. Thou art one. Thou art one, just as there is one who will say to thee: Thou art one, thou art a single living spirit.

**10** How shall we give thee a name? We have none. For thou art the existence of them all. Thou art the life of them all. Thou art the mind of them all.

**11** For thou art he in whom they all rejoice. Thou hast commanded them all to be saved through thy word.

**12** Thou hast commanded all who are worthy to be saved and to be encompassed by thee, thou who art uncontained.

**13** For thou art the first having come forth, and thou art also incomprehensible, being a place for them all, for the rest of those who came forth also, who are from the really truly all.

**14** For thou knowest thyself, that thou art the one whom none may know. And he who knows thee knows himself, in order that he who has sought should find.

**15** Thou art one. Thou art one. Blessed be thy name among those who are truly worthy. For thou art not perceived nor known; for it is what perceives and knows that perceives thee.

**16** Blessed art thou forever and ever.
