---
title: "Three Steles of Seth - Chapter 3"
scripture: "three-steles-of-seth"
chapter: 3
---

**1** The third stele of Seth: We rejoice! We rejoice! We rejoice!

**2** We have seen! We have seen! We have seen the really truly pre-existent one, that he really truly exists, being the first eternal one.

**3** O Uncontained one, first one, who dost surpass! Thou art the aeon of the aeons of the great, perfect, first one.

**4** From the spirit that is triple-male, which cannot be seen, thou hast approved of all those who have come to be. Thou hast approved of all who came from thee.

**5** For it is from thee that all these things have derived. Into thee they have all been resolved, they and all the aeons of the aeons.

**6** Thou art they, and they are thou. And because of thee and thy seed do they all exist. For it is because of thy seed that they exist.

**7** He sees himself, he who is entirely a refuge. For thou art one of his, and he is thine. And thou art he, and there is no one else who looks on him, as another.

**8** For the world has not come to know the One who is above all these, the great self-begotten living God.

**9** We call upon thee, for thou art the first one, the only one, the perfect one, for it is thou through whom we call on the perfect God.

**10** O pre-existent one, thou hast appeared in goodness. We bless thee, seeing thee.

**11** Thou hast blessed us through thy will, and we bless thee. We glorify thee; we glorify thy first one.

**12** We have been saved; we who know thee have been saved. The indivisible one, thou hast appeared to us.

**13** The unbegotten one, to thee from the unbegotten one we raise the glory; the uncircumscribed one, to thee from those who are uncircumscribed we raise the glory.

**14** The first one from above, thou art the illuminator. Nothing has authority over thee; and we have been illuminated, having been saved.

**15** When he had said these things, Seth rejoiced as well as the living and unshakable race.

**16** These are those which Dositheos revealed. When the three steles had been read, they came to agreement. And they said: Amen! Amen! Amen!
