---
title: "Vendidad Chapter 1 - The Creation of the Sixteen Lands"
scripture: "vendidad"
chapter: 1
---

**1** Ahura Mazda spake unto Spitama Zarathushtra, saying: I have made every land dear to its dwellers, even though it had no charms whatever in it: had I not made every land dear to its dwellers, even though it had no charms whatever in it, then the whole living world would have invaded the Airyana Vaejah.

**2** The first of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was the Airyana Vaejah, by the good river Daitya. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft the serpent in the river and winter, a work of the Daevas.

**3** There are ten winter months there, two summer months; and those are cold for the waters, cold for the earth, cold for the trees. Winter falls there, with the worst of its plagues.

**4** The second of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was the plains in Sughdha. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft the fly Skaitya, which brings death to the cattle.

**5** The third of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was the strong, holy Mouru. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft sinful lusts.

**6** The fourth of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was the beautiful Bakhdhi with high-lifted banners. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft the ants and the ant-hills.

**7** The fifth of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was Nisaya, that lies between Mouru and Bakhdhi. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft the sin of unbelief.

**8** The sixth of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was the house-deserting Haroyu. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft stains and tears.

**9** The seventh of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was Vaekereta, of the evil shadows. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft the Pairika Knathaiti, who clung to Keresaspa.

**10** The eighth of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was Urva of the rich pastures. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft the sin of pride.

**11** The ninth of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was Khnenta in Vehrkana. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft a sin for which there is no atonement, the unnatural sin.

**12** The tenth of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was the beautiful Harahvaiti. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft a sin for which there is no atonement, the burying of the dead.

**13** The eleventh of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was the bright, glorious Haetumat. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft evil wizards.

**14** The twelfth of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was Ragha of the three races. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft the sin of utter unbelief.

**15** The thirteenth of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was the strong, holy Chakhra. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft a sin for which there is no atonement, the burning of corpses.

**16** The fourteenth of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was the four-cornered Varena, for which was born Thraetaona, who smote Azhi Dahaka. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft abnormal issues in women and the oppression of foreign rulers.

**17** The fifteenth of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was the Seven Rivers. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft abnormal issues in women and excessive heat.

**18** The sixteenth of the good lands and countries which I, Ahura Mazda, created, was the land by the floods of the Rangha, where people live who have no chiefs. Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created by his witchcraft winter, a work of the Daevas.

**19** There are still other lands and countries, beautiful and deep, longing and asking for the good, and bright.
