---
title: "Vendidad Chapter 3 - The Earth"
scripture: "vendidad"
chapter: 3
---

**1** O Maker of the material world, thou Holy One! Which is the first place where the Earth feels most happy?

**2** Ahura Mazda answered: It is the place whereon one of the faithful steps forward, O Spitama Zarathushtra! with the holy wood in his hand, the Baresman in his hand, the holy meat in his hand, the holy mortar in his hand, fulfilling the law with love, and beseeching aloud Mithra, the lord of wide pastures, and Raman Hvastra.

**3** O Maker of the material world, thou Holy One! Which is the second place where the Earth feels most happy?

**4** Ahura Mazda answered: It is the place whereon one of the faithful erects a house with a priest within, with cattle, with a wife, with children, and good herds within; and wherein afterwards the cattle go on thriving, virtue is thriving, fodder is thriving, the dog is thriving, the wife is thriving, the child is thriving, the fire is thriving, and every blessing of life is thriving.

**5** O Maker of the material world, thou Holy One! Which is the third place where the Earth feels most happy?

**6** Ahura Mazda answered: It is the place where one of the faithful sows most corn, grass, and fruit, O Spitama Zarathushtra! where he waters ground that is dry, or drains ground that is too wet.

**7** O Maker of the material world, thou Holy One! Which is the fourth place where the Earth feels most happy?

**8** Ahura Mazda answered: It is the place where there is most increase of flocks and herds.

**9** O Maker of the material world, thou Holy One! Which is the fifth place where the Earth feels most happy?

**10** Ahura Mazda answered: It is the place where flocks and herds yield most dung.

**11** O Maker of the material world, thou Holy One! Which is the first place where the Earth feels sorest grief?

**12** Ahura Mazda answered: It is the neck of Arezura, whereon the hosts of fiends rush forth from the burrow of the Drug.

**13** O Maker of the material world, thou Holy One! Which is the second place where the Earth feels sorest grief?

**14** Ahura Mazda answered: It is the place wherein most corpses of dogs and of men lie buried.

**15** O Maker of the material world, thou Holy One! Which is the third place where the Earth feels sorest grief?

**16** Ahura Mazda answered: It is the place where most of those Dakhmas are built on which the corpses of men are deposited.

**17** He who would be righteous shall sow the earth with grain and make the land fruitful; he shall care for the righteous man and his cattle. He who sows corn, sows righteousness.
