---
title: "Numbers - Chapter 32"
scripture: "numbers"
chapter: 32
---

**1** Now the children of Reuben and the children of Gad had a very great multitude of cattle: and when they saw the land of Jazer, and the land of Gilead, that, behold, the place was a place for cattle;

**2** The children of Gad and the children of Reuben came and spake unto Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and unto the princes of the congregation, saying,

**3** Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah, and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Shebam, and Nebo, and Beon,

**4** Even the country which the LORD smote before the congregation of Israel, is a land for cattle, and thy servants have cattle:

**5** Wherefore, said they, if we have found grace in thy sight, let this land be given unto thy servants for a possession, and bring us not over Jordan.

**6** And Moses said unto the children of Gad and to the children of Reuben, Shall your brethren go to war, and shall ye sit here?

**7** And wherefore discourage ye the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which the LORD hath given them?

**8** Thus did your fathers, when I sent them from Kadeshbarnea to see the land.

**9** For when they went up unto the valley of Eshcol, and saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the children of Israel, that they should not go into the land which the LORD had given them.

**10** And the LORD's anger was kindled the same time, and he sware, saying,

**11** Surely none of the men that came up out of Egypt, from twenty years old and upward, shall see the land which I sware unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob; because they have not wholly followed me:

**12** Save Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite, and Joshua the son of Nun: for they have wholly followed the LORD.

**13** And the LORD's anger was kindled against Israel, and he made them wander in the wilderness forty years, until all the generation, that had done evil in the sight of the LORD, was consumed.

**14** And, behold, ye are risen up in your fathers' stead, an increase of sinful men, to augment yet the fierce anger of the LORD toward Israel.

**15** For if ye turn away from after him, he will yet again leave them in the wilderness; and ye shall destroy all this people.

**16** And they came near unto him, and said, We will build sheepfolds here for our cattle, and cities for our little ones:

**17** But we ourselves will go ready armed before the children of Israel, until we have brought them unto their place: and our little ones shall dwell in the fenced cities because of the inhabitants of the land.

**18** We will not return unto our houses, until the children of Israel have inherited every man his inheritance.

**19** For we will not inherit with them on yonder side Jordan, or forward; because our inheritance is fallen to us on this side Jordan eastward.

**20** And Moses said unto them, If ye will do this thing, if ye will go armed before the LORD to war,

**21** And will go all of you armed over Jordan before the LORD, until he hath driven out his enemies from before him,

**22** And the land be subdued before the LORD: then afterward ye shall return, and be guiltless before the LORD, and before Israel; and this land shall be your possession before the LORD.

**23** But if ye will not do so, behold, ye have sinned against the LORD: and be sure your sin will find you out.
