---
title: "Teachings of Silvanus - Chapter 1"
scripture: "teachings-of-silvanus"
chapter: 1
---

**1** Abolish every childish time of life, acquire for yourself strength of mind and soul, and intensify the struggle against every folly of the passions of love and base wickedness, and love of praise, and fondness of contention, and tiresome jealousy, and wrath, and anger, and the desire of avarice.

**2** Guard your camp and weapons and spears. Arm yourself and all the soldiers, which are the words, and the commanders, which are the counsels, and your mind as a guiding principle.

**3** My son, throw every robber out of your gates. Guard all your gates with torches, which are the words, and you will acquire through all these things a quiet life.

**4** But he who will not guard these things will become like a city which is desolate, since it has been captured. All kinds of wild beasts have trampled upon it, for thoughts which are not good are evil wild beasts.

**5** And your city will be filled with robbers, and you will not be able to acquire peace, but only all kinds of savage wild beasts.

**6** The Wicked One, who is a tyrant, is lord over these. While directing this, he is beneath the great mire. The whole city, which is your soul, will perish.

**7** Remove yourself from these things, O wretched soul! Bring your guide and your teacher. The mind is the guide, but reason is the teacher.

**8** They will bring you out of destruction and dangers. Listen, my son, to my advice! Do not show your back to enemies and flee, but rather pursue them as a strong one.

**9** Be not an animal, with men pursuing you, but rather be a man, with you pursuing the evil wild beasts, lest somehow they become the victor over you and trample upon you as a dead man.

**10** O wretched man, what will you do if you fall into their hands? Protect yourself, lest you be delivered into the hands of your enemies.
