---
title: "Teachings of Silvanus - Chapter 2"
scripture: "teachings-of-silvanus"
chapter: 2
---

**1** Know who Christ is, and acquire him as a friend, for he is the true friend. He is also God and Teacher.

**2** This one, being God, became man for your sake. It is this one who broke the iron bars of the Underworld and the bronze bolts. It is this one who attacked and cast down every haughty tyrant.

**3** It is he who loosened from himself the chains of which he had taken hold. He brought up the poor from the Abyss and the mourners from the Underworld.

**4** It is he who humbled the haughty powers; he who put to shame haughtiness through humility; he who has cast down the strong and the boaster through weakness.

**5** He who in his contempt scorned that which is considered an honor, so that humility for God's sake might be highly exalted; and he has put on humanity.

**6** And yet, the divine Word is God, he through whom the Father is well pleased, since he came to the heights of heaven, and he was conceived in the womb, and he did the will of his Father.

**7** O unsearchable and immeasurable light, for all things are in the light, but the light is in all things. Why, then, do you seek the light which shines brightly, while you sit in the darkness?

**8** Cast the light of the world from your soul. If someone says: "the light exists," know that the light dwells in you.

**9** If no one is in the light, the light will not shine by itself. The light needs the person, and the person needs the light.

**10** For what use is it if the light exists in the world, yet the blind man does not see it? Likewise, what use is it if you have knowledge, yet you do not practice it?
