---
title: "Teachings of Silvanus - Chapter 3"
scripture: "teachings-of-silvanus"
chapter: 3
---

**1** Live in Christ, and you will acquire a treasure in heaven. Do not become a sausage-maker of many things which are useless, and do not become a guide in your blind ignorance.

**2** My son, do not swim in any water, and do not allow yourself to be defiled by strange kinds of knowledge. Certainly you know that the schemes of the adversary are not few and the tricks which he has are varied.

**3** Especially has the noetic man been robbed of the knowledge of God, so that by his trickery he might enslave him by his deficiency.

**4** Do not tire of knocking on the door of reason, and do not cease walking in the way of Christ. Walk in it so that you may receive rest from your labors.

**5** If you walk in another way, there will be no profit in it. For also those who walk in the broad way will go down at their end to the perdition of the Underworld.

**6** O my son, walk in the narrow way, so that you might find the peace of God. He indeed rests in narrow places.

**7** Wisdom summons you in her goodness, saying: "Come to me, all of you, O foolish ones, that you may receive a gift of the understanding which is good and excellent."

**8** I am giving to you a high-priestly garment which is woven from every kind of wisdom.

**9** What else is evil death except ignorance? What else is evil darkness except familiarity with forgetfulness? Cast your anxiety upon God alone. Do not become desirous of gold and silver, which are profitless, but clothe yourself with wisdom like a robe.

**10** Put knowledge upon you like a crown, and be seated upon a throne of perception. For these are yours, and you will receive them again on high once more.
