---
title: "Protoevangelium of James - Chapter 13"
scripture: "protoevangelium-of-james"
chapter: 13
---

**1** And Annas the scribe came to him, and said to him: Joseph, why hast thou not appeared in our assembly? And Joseph said to him: I was weary from the journey, and I rested the first day.

**2** And Annas turned and saw Mary great with child.

**3** And he went running to the priest, and said to him: Joseph, to whom thou barest witness, has grievously transgressed. And the high priest said: In what way? And he said: The virgin whom he received from the temple of the Lord, he hath defiled her, and hath stolen her marriage, and hath not disclosed it to the sons of Israel.

**4** And the high priest said: Has Joseph done this? And Annas said: Send officers, and thou shalt find the virgin great with child.

**5** And the officers went away and found as he had said, and they brought her along with Joseph to the court. And the priest said: Mary, why hast thou done this? Why hast thou humbled thy soul? Hast thou forgotten the Lord thy God?

**6** Thou that wast nourished in the Holy of Holies, and didst receive food from the hand of an angel, and didst hear the hymns, and didst dance before the Lord, why hast thou done this?

**7** And she wept bitterly, saying: As the Lord my God liveth, I am pure before him, and I know not a man.

**8** And the high priest said: Joseph, why hast thou done this? And Joseph said: As the Lord my God liveth, I am pure as regards her.

**9** And the high priest said: Bear not false witness, but speak the truth. Thou hast stolen her marriage, and hast not disclosed it to the sons of Israel; and thou hast not bowed thy head under the mighty hand, that thy seed might be blessed.

**10** And Joseph held his peace.
