---
title: "Protoevangelium of James - Chapter 18"
scripture: "protoevangelium-of-james"
chapter: 18
---

**1** And the midwife went forth of the cave, and Salome met her. And she said to her: Salome, Salome, a new sight have I to tell thee. A virgin hath brought forth, which her nature allows not.

**2** And Salome said: As the Lord my God liveth, if I make not trial and prove her nature I will not believe that a virgin hath brought forth.

**3** And the midwife went in and said unto Mary: Show thyself; for no small controversy has arisen regarding thee. And Salome made trial, and received satisfaction.

**4** And her hand was burned, and she cried out and said: Woe unto mine iniquity and mine unbelief, because I have tempted the living God, and behold, my hand falls away from me in fire.

**5** And Salome bent her knees to the Lord, saying: O God of my fathers, remember that I am the seed of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob. Make me not a public example to the sons of Israel, but restore me to the poor; for thou knowest, Lord, that in thy name did I perform my cures, and did receive my wages from thee.

**6** And behold, an angel of the Lord stood by Salome, saying: The Lord God hath heard thy prayer. Stretch forth thy hand to the young child, and take him up, and there shall be to thee salvation and joy.

**7** And Salome came near, and took him up, saying: I will worship him, for a great king has been born unto Israel.

**8** And behold, immediately Salome was healed; and she went forth of the cave justified.

**9** And behold, a voice saying: Salome, Salome, tell none of the marvels which thou hast seen, until the child enter into Jerusalem.
