---
title: "Protoevangelium of James - Chapter 19"
scripture: "protoevangelium-of-james"
chapter: 19
---

**1** And behold, Joseph prepared to go forth into Judea. And there took place a great tumult in Bethlehem of Judea; for there came wise men saying: Where is the king of the Jews that is born? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him.

**2** When Herod heard this he was troubled, and sent officers to the wise men, and sent for the chief priests, and examined them, saying: How is it written concerning the Messiah? Where is he born?

**3** They say to him: In Bethlehem of Judea; for so it is written. And he let them go.

**4** And he examined the wise men, saying to them: What sign did ye see concerning the king that has been born? And the wise men said: We saw how an indescribably great star shone among these stars, and dimmed them, so that they no longer shone; and so we knew that a king was born for Israel, and we came to adore him.

**5** And Herod said: Go and seek, and when ye have found, report to me, that I also may come and adore him.

**6** And the wise men went forth. And behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them until they came to the cave. And it stood over the head of the child.

**7** And the wise men saw the young child with Mary his mother, and they brought forth out of their treasures gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh.

**8** And being warned by the angel that they should not go into Judea, they went into their own country by another way.
