---
title: "Protoevangelium of James - Chapter 6"
scripture: "protoevangelium-of-james"
chapter: 6
---

**1** And the child grew strong day by day; and when she was six months old, her mother set her on the ground to try whether she could stand, and she walked seven steps and came into her bosom; and she snatched her up, saying: As the Lord my God liveth, thou shalt not walk again upon this ground until I bring thee into the temple of the Lord.

**2** And she made a sanctuary in her bed-chamber, and suffered nothing common or unclean to pass through unto her. And she called the undefiled daughters of the Hebrews, and they played with her.

**3** And when she was a year old, Joachim made a great feast, and invited the priests, and the scribes, and the elders, and all the people of Israel. And Joachim brought the child to the priests; and they blessed her, saying: O God of our fathers, bless this child, and give her an everlasting name to be named in all generations.

**4** And he brought her to the chief priests; and they blessed her, saying: O God most high, look upon this child, and bless her with the utmost blessing, which shall be for ever.

**5** And her mother snatched her up, and took her into the sanctuary of her bed-chamber, and gave her the breast. And Anna made a song unto the Lord God, saying: I will sing a song unto the Lord my God, for he hath looked upon me, and hath taken away the reproach of mine enemies; and the Lord hath given me the fruit of his righteousness, singular in its kind and richly varied before him.
