---
title: "Bodhicaryavatara Chapter 5"
scripture: "bodhicaryavatara"
chapter: 5
---

**1.** Those who wish to keep the trainings must with perfect care protect their minds. For those who do not guard their minds will be unable to preserve their trainings.

**2.** Untamed elephants in their fury do not cause such havoc in this world as does the raging elephant of mind, set free, let loose, in the Avici hell and worse.

**3.** But if the elephant of mind is bound on every side by the cord of mindfulness, all danger fades, complete well-being follows.

**4.** Tigers, lions, elephants, bears, snakes, all enemies and all the guardians of the hells, evil spirits, demons — one and all —

**5.** Are bound by binding of the mind alone. By taming of the mind alone, all are likewise tamed.

**6.** The Perfect Teacher has declared that every fear and all the boundless sufferings of beings proceed and issue from the mind.

**7.** Who was it who contrived the weapons used in hell? And who the burning iron floor? From where did all the women of the hells appear?

**8.** All of these are but the offspring of the sinful mind — so the Mighty One has said. There is nothing in the triple world to fear but what the mind creates.

**9.** If the paramita of giving were the perfection that makes all beings rich, then since there are still beggars in the world, in what manner did the former Buddhas practise it?

**10.** The paramita of giving is the thought itself of giving unto all beings all possessions, together with the fruit of such a gift. It is, therefore, simply a state of mind.

**11.** Where could sentient beings — fish and others — possibly be placed where I might never injure them? Yet gaining the intention to refrain from harm is the perfection of morality, so it is taught.

**12.** Unruly beings are as vast as space — it is not possible to overcome them all. But if I overcome the thought of anger, it is tantamount to vanquishing all foes.

**13.** Where could I possibly find enough leather with which to cover the surface of the earth? But wearing leather just upon my soles is tantamount to covering every ground.

**14.** Likewise, I am unable to restrain external things. But let me just restrain my mind. What need is there to restrain all else?

**15.** Therefore I shall guard and check my mind; for without this discipline of guarding and of watching the mind, what use are all the other trainings?
