---
title: "Epic of Gilgamesh Tablet 11"
scripture: "epic-of-gilgamesh"
chapter: 11
---

**Tablet XI**

**1** Utnapishtim spoke to Gilgamesh:
**2** "Let me reveal to you, Gilgamesh, a thing that is hidden,
**3** a secret of the gods let me tell you!
**4** Shuruppak, a city that you surely know,
**5** situated on the banks of the Euphrates—

**6** that city was very old, and there were gods inside it.
**7** The hearts of the great gods moved them to inflict the Flood.
**8** Their father Anu uttered the oath of secrecy,
**9** valiant Enlil was their adviser,
**10** Ninurta was their chamberlain,
**11** Ennugi was their canal-controller.

**12** Ea, the clever prince, was under oath with them,
**13** so he repeated their talk to the reed house:
**14** 'Reed house, reed house! Wall, wall!
**15** O man of Shuruppak, son of Ubar-Tutu:

**16** Tear down the house and build a boat!
**17** Abandon wealth and seek living beings!
**18** Spurn possessions and keep alive living things!
**19** Make all living beings go up into the boat.

**20** The boat which you are to build,
**21** her dimensions must measure equal to each other:
**22** her length must correspond to her breadth.
**23** Roof her over like the Apsu.'

**24** I understood and spoke to my lord, Ea:
**25** 'My lord, thus is the command which you have uttered;
**26** I will heed and will do it.
**27** But what shall I answer the city, the populace, the elders?'

**28** Ea spoke, commanding me, his servant:
**29** 'You, well then, this is what you must say to them:
**30** "It appears that Enlil is rejecting me
**31** so I cannot reside in your city,
**32** nor set foot on Enlil's earth.

**33** I will go down to the Apsu to live with my lord, Ea,
**34** and upon you he will rain down abundance,
**35** a profusion of fowl, a wealth of fish.
**36** In the morning he will let loaves of bread shower down,
**37** and in the evening a rain of wheat!"'

**38** Just as dawn began to glow
**39** the land assembled around me.
**40** [Gap in text]

**41** The carpenter carried his hatchet,
**42** the reed worker carried his stone.
**43** The child carried the pitch,
**44** the weak brought whatever else was needed.

**45** On the fifth day I laid out her exterior.
**46** It was a field in area,
**47** its walls were ten rods high each,
**48** the sides of its deck were equally ten rods.

**49** I laid out its interior structure and drew a picture of it.
**50** I provided it with six decks,
**51** thus dividing it into seven levels.
**52** The interior I divided into nine compartments.

**53** I drove plugs into it to prevent the water from entering.
**54** I identified a spot for the bilge pipe and laid in supplies.
**55** Six sar of bitumen I poured into the bitumen kiln,
**56** three sar of pitch I poured in on the inside.

**57** Three sar of oil the basket-bearers carried,
**58** aside from the one sar of oil consumed by the caulking,
**59** and the two sar of oil stored away by the boatman.
**60** I butchered oxen for the workmen,

**61** and day upon day I slaughtered sheep.
**62** I gave the workers ale, beer, oil, and wine
**63** as if they were river water,
**64** so they could make a party like the New Year's Festival.

**65** I rubbed myself with oil,
**66** and when the sun indicated the ship was complete—
**67** the launching was very difficult.
**68** They had to keep carrying a runway of poles front to back,
**69** until two-thirds of it had gone into the water.

**70** Whatever I had I loaded on it:
**71** whatever silver I had I loaded on it,
**72** whatever gold I had I loaded on it.
**73** All the living beings that I had I loaded on it.

**74** I had all my kith and kin go up into the boat,
**75** all the beasts and animals of the field,
**76** and all the craftsmen I had go up.

**77** Shamash had set a stated time:
**78** 'In the morning I will let loaves of bread shower down,
**79** and in the evening a rain of wheat!
**80** Go inside the boat, seal the entry!'

**81** That stated time had arrived:
**82** In the morning he let loaves of bread shower down,
**83** in the evening a rain of wheat.
**84** I watched the appearance of the weather—
**85** the weather was frightful to behold!

**86** I went into the boat and sealed the entry.
**87** For the caulking of the boat, to Puzur-Amurri, the boatman,
**88** I gave over the palace together with its contents.

**89** Just as dawn began to glow
**90** there arose on the horizon a black cloud.
**91** Adad rumbled inside it,
**92** before him went Shullat and Hanish,
**93** going as heralds over mountain and land.

**94** Errakal pulled out the mooring poles,
**95** forth went Ninurta and made the dikes overflow.
**96** The Anunnaki lifted up the torches,
**97** setting the land ablaze with their flare.

**98** Stunned shock over Adad's deeds overtook the heavens,
**99** and turned to blackness all that had been light.
**100** The land was shattered like a pot!

**101** All day long the South Wind blew,
**102** blowing fast, submerging the mountain in water,
**103** overwhelming the people like an attack.
**104** No one could see his fellow,
**105** they could not recognize each other in the torrent.

**106** The gods were frightened by the Flood,
**107** and retreated, ascending to the heaven of Anu.
**108** The gods were cowering like dogs, crouching by the outer wall.
**109** Ishtar shrieked like a woman in childbirth,

**110** the sweet-voiced Mistress of the Gods wailed:
**111** 'The olden days have alas turned to clay,
**112** because I said evil things in the Assembly of the Gods!
**113** How could I say evil things in the Assembly of the Gods,
**114** ordering a catastrophe to destroy my people!

**115** No sooner have I given birth to my dear people
**116** than they fill the sea like so many fish!'
**117** The gods of the Anunnaki wept with her,
**118** the gods humbly sat weeping, sobbing with grief,
**119** their lips burning, parched with thirst.

**120** Six days and seven nights
**121** came the wind and flood, the storm flattening the land.
**122** When the seventh day arrived,
**123** the storm was pounding,
**124** the flood was a war—
**125** struggling with itself like a woman writhing in labour.

**126** The sea calmed, fell still, the whirlwind and flood stopped.
**127** I looked around all day long—quiet had set in,
**128** and all the human beings had turned to clay!
**129** The terrain was as flat as a roof.

**130** I opened a vent and fresh air fell upon the side of my nose.
**131** I fell to my knees and sat weeping,
**132** tears streaming down the side of my nose.
**133** I looked around for coastlines in the expanse of the sea,

**134** and at fourteen regions there emerged a mountain.
**135** On Mount Nimush the boat lodged firm,
**136** Mount Nimush held the boat, allowing no sway.

**137** One day, a second day, Mount Nimush held the boat, allowing no sway.
**138** A third day, a fourth day, Mount Nimush held the boat, allowing no sway.
**139** A fifth, a sixth day, Mount Nimush held the boat, allowing no sway.

**140** When a seventh day arrived
**141** I sent forth a dove and released it.
**142** The dove went off, but came back to me;
**143** no perch was visible so it circled back to me.

**144** I sent forth a swallow and released it.
**145** The swallow went off, but came back to me;
**146** no perch was visible so it circled back to me.

**147** I sent forth a raven and released it.
**148** The raven went off, and saw the waters slither back.
**149** It eats, it scratches, it bobs, but does not circle back to me.

**150** Then I sent out everything in all directions and sacrificed a sheep.
**151** I offered incense in front of the mountain-ziggurat.
**152** Seven and seven cult vessels I put in place,
**153** and into the fire underneath I poured reeds, cedar, and myrtle.

**154** The gods smelled the savour,
**155** the gods smelled the sweet savour,
**156** and collected like flies over a sacrifice.

**157** Just then the great goddess arrived.
**158** She lifted up the large flies which Anu had made for his enjoyment:
**159** 'You gods, as surely as I shall not forget this lapis lazuli
**160** around my neck,

**161** may I be mindful of these days, and never forget them!
**162** The gods may come to the incense offering,
**163** but Enlil may not come to the incense offering,
**164** because without consideration he brought about the Flood
**165** and consigned my people to annihilation.'

**166** Just then Enlil arrived.
**167** He saw the boat and became furious,
**168** he was filled with rage at the Igigi gods:
**169** 'Where did a living being escape?
**170** No man was to survive the annihilation!'

**171** Ninurta spoke to valiant Enlil, saying:
**172** 'Who else but Ea could devise such a thing?
**173** It is Ea who knows every machination!'

**174** Ea spoke to valiant Enlil:
**175** 'It is yours, O valiant one, who is the sage of the gods.
**176** How, how could you bring about a Flood without consideration?

**177** Charge the violation to the violator,
**178** charge the transgression to the transgressor,
**179** but be compassionate lest mankind be cut off,
**180** be patient lest they be killed.

**181** Instead of your bringing on the Flood,
**182** would that a lion had appeared to diminish the people!
**183** Instead of your bringing on the Flood,
**184** would that a wolf had appeared to diminish the people!

**185** Instead of your bringing on the Flood,
**186** would that famine had occurred to slay the land!
**187** Instead of your bringing on the Flood,
**188** would that pestilent Erra had appeared to slay the land!

**189** It was not I who revealed the secret of the great gods;
**190** I only made a dream appear to Atrahasis, and he perceived the secret of the gods.
**191** Now then, make a plan for him!'

**192** Then Enlil went up inside the boat
**193** and, grasping my hand, made me go up.
**194** He had my wife go up and kneel by my side.
**195** He touched our foreheads and, standing between us, he blessed us:

**196** 'Previously Utnapishtim was a human being.
**197** But now let Utnapishtim and his wife become like us, the gods!
**198** Let Utnapishtim reside far away, at the Mouth of the Rivers.'

**199** They took us far away and settled us at the Mouth of the Rivers."

**200** "Now then, who will convene the gods on your behalf,
**201** that you may find the life that you are seeking?
**202** Wait! You must not lie down for six days and seven nights."

**203** As soon as he sat down with his head between his knees
**204** sleep, like a fog, blew upon him.
**205** Utnapishtim said to his wife:
**206** "Look there! The man, the youth who wanted eternal life!
**207** Sleep, like a fog, blew over him."

**208** His wife spoke to Utnapishtim the Faraway:
**209** "Touch him, let the man awaken.
**210** Let him return safely by the way he came.
**211** Let him return to his land by the gate through which he left."

**212** Utnapishtim spoke to his wife:
**213** "Mankind is deceptive, and will deceive you.
**214** Come, bake loaves for him and put them beside his head
**215** and draw on the wall each day that he sleeps."

**216** She baked his loaves and put them beside his head
**217** and marked on the wall the day that he slept.
**218** His first loaf was dried out,
**219** the second stale, the third moist, the fourth turned white,
**220** the fifth sprouted grey mould, the sixth is still fresh,
**221** the seventh—just then he touched him and the man awoke.

**222** Gilgamesh said to Utnapishtim:
**223** "The very moment sleep was pouring over me
**224** you touched me and alerted me!"

**225** Utnapishtim spoke to Gilgamesh:
**226** "Count your loaves, Gilgamesh!
**227** Then you will know the number of days you slept.
**228** Your first loaf is dried out,
**229** the second stale, the third moist, your fourth turned white,
**230** the fifth sprouted grey mould, the sixth is fresh,
**231** the seventh—at that instant you awoke!"

**232** Gilgamesh said to Utnapishtim:
**233** "O woe! What shall I do, Utnapishtim, where shall I go!
**234** The Snatcher has taken hold of my flesh,
**235** in my bedroom Death dwells,
**236** and wherever I set foot there too is Death!"

**237** Utnapishtim said to Urshanabi the boatman:
**238** "May the harbour reject you, may the crossing point reject you!
**239** Be banished from the shore along which you once moved.
**240** The man in front of whom you walk, matted is his hair,
**241** animal skins have ruined his beautiful body.

**242** Take him, Urshanabi, bring him to the washing place.
**243** Let him wash his matted hair in water like ellu.
**244** Let him throw off his skins and let the sea carry them away,
**245** and let his body be moistened with fine oil.

**246** Let the wrap around his head be made new.
**247** Let him be clad in raiment worthy of him.
**248** Until he goes off on his way,
**249** his royal garment will show no sign of aging,
**250** it will remain new."

**251** Urshanabi took him and brought him to the washing place.
**252** He washed his matted hair in water like ellu.
**253** He threw off his skins and the sea carried them away.
**254** His body was moistened with fine oil,
**255** the wrap around his head was made new.
**256** He was clad in raiment worthy of him.

**257** Until he went off on his way,
**258** his royal garment showed no sign of aging,
**259** it remained quite new.

**260** Gilgamesh and Urshanabi embarked on the boat,
**261** they cast off the magillu-boat and sailed away.

**262** His wife said to Utnapishtim the Faraway:
**263** "Gilgamesh has come here exhausted and worn out.
**264** What can you give him so that he can return to his land with honour?"

**265** Then Gilgamesh raised a punting pole
**266** and drew the boat to shore.

**267** Utnapishtim spoke to Gilgamesh:
**268** "Gilgamesh, you came here exhausted and worn out.
**269** What can I give you so you can return to your land?
**270** I will reveal a secret thing, Gilgamesh,
**271** a mystery of the gods I will tell you!

**272** There is a plant like a boxthorn,
**273** whose thorns will prick your hand like a rose.
**274** If your hands reach that plant you will become a young man again."

**275** Hearing this, Gilgamesh opened a conduit to the Apsu
**276** and attached heavy stones to his feet.
**277** They dragged him down, to the Apsu they pulled him.
**278** He took the plant, though it pricked his hand,
**279** and cut the heavy stones from his feet,
**280** letting the waves throw him up on its shores.

**281** Gilgamesh spoke to Urshanabi the boatman:
**282** "Urshanabi, this plant is a plant against decay
**283** by which a man can attain his survival.
**284** I will bring it to Uruk-the-Sheepfold; I will have an old man eat it to test it.

**285** The plant's name is 'The Old Man Becomes a Young Man.'
**286** Then I will eat it and return to the condition of my youth."

**287** At twenty leagues they broke for some food,
**288** at thirty leagues they stopped for the night.

**289** Gilgamesh saw a spring whose water was cool.
**290** He went down into it to bathe in the water.
**291** A snake smelled the fragrance of the plant,
**292** silently came up and carried off the plant.

**293** While going back it sloughed its skin.
**294** At that point Gilgamesh sat down, weeping,
**295** his tears streaming over the side of his nose.

**296** "For whom have my arms laboured, Urshanabi!
**297** For whom has my heart's blood been spent!
**298** I have not secured any good deed for myself,
**299** but done a good deed for the 'lion of the ground'!

**300** Now the high waters are coursing twenty leagues distant,
**301** as I opened the conduit I turned my equipment over into it.
**302** What can I find to serve as a marker for me?
**303** I will turn back and leave the boat on the shore!"

**304** At twenty leagues they broke for some food,
**305** at thirty leagues they stopped for the night.
**306** They arrived in Uruk-the-Sheepfold.

**307** Gilgamesh said to Urshanabi the boatman:
**308** "Go up, Urshanabi, onto the wall of Uruk and walk around.
**309** Examine its foundation, inspect its brickwork thoroughly—
**310** is not its brickwork of burnt brick?
**311** Did not the Seven Sages lay its foundations?

**312** One square mile is city, one square mile is orchards,
**313** one square mile is claypits, as well as the open ground of Ishtar's temple.
**314** Three square miles and the open ground comprise Uruk."
