---
title: "Epic of Gilgamesh Tablet 6"
scripture: "epic-of-gilgamesh"
chapter: 6
---

**Tablet VI**

**1** He washed out his matted hair, cleaned his equipment.
**2** He shook out his locks down over his back.
**3** He threw off his soiled clothes, put on clean ones.
**4** He wrapped himself in a cloak and tied his sash.

**5** When Gilgamesh placed his crown on his head,
**6** a princess, Ishtar, raised her eyes to the beauty of Gilgamesh:
**7** "Come to me, Gilgamesh, and be my bridegroom!
**8** Grant me your fruit.

**9** You shall be my husband and I shall be your wife.
**10** I will have harnessed for you a chariot of lapis lazuli and gold,
**11** with wheels of gold and horns of electrum.
**12** You shall harness great storming donkeys to the yoke.

**13** Enter our house through the fragrance of cedar.
**14** When you enter our house
**15** the doorstep and dais shall kiss your feet.
**16** Kings, lords, and princes shall bow down before you.

**17** They shall bring you as tribute the yield of mountain and lowland.
**18** Your goats shall bear triplets, your sheep twins,
**19** your donkey under burden shall outpace the mule,
**20** your horse at the chariot shall charge ahead at a gallop.

**21** Your ox at the yoke shall have no rival."

**22** Gilgamesh opened his mouth to speak, saying to the princess Ishtar:
**23** "What could I give you if I took you as wife?
**24** Would I give you oil for the body and garments?
**25** Would I give you bread and provisions?

**26** You would need food fit for divinity,
**27** you would need drink fit for royalty.
**28** [Gap in text]

**29** What would I get if I married you?
**30** You are a brazier that goes out in the cold,
**31** a back door that keeps out neither breeze nor storm,
**32** a palace that crushes the brave ones defending it,

**33** a turban whose cover blows away in the wind,
**34** pitch that blackens the hands of its bearer,
**35** a waterskin that soaks its bearer through,
**36** limestone that buckles out the stone wall,

**37** a battering ram that attracts the enemy land,
**38** a shoe that bites its owner's feet!

**39** Which of your lovers have you loved forever?
**40** Which of your shepherds has continued to please you?
**41** Come, let me name for you your lovers.

**42** For Tammuz, the lover of your youth,
**43** you decreed wailing year after year!
**44** You loved the speckled allallu-bird,
**45** then you struck him, breaking his wing.

**46** In the forest he stands, crying 'my wing!'
**47** You loved the lion, perfect in strength,
**48** then you dug for him seven pits and seven.
**49** You loved the stallion, glorious in battle,
**50** then you decreed for him the whip, the goad, and the lash.

**51** You decreed for him to gallop seven leagues,
**52** you decreed for him the muddied water to drink,
**53** and for his mother Silili you decreed weeping!

**54** You loved the shepherd, the grazier, the herdsman,
**55** who always heaped up the glowing ashes for you,
**56** and cooked ewe-lambs for you every day.
**57** You struck him and turned him into a wolf.

**58** His own herd-boys drive him away,
**59** and his dogs tear at his flanks!
**60** You loved Ishullanu, your father's date-gardener,
**61** who always brought you baskets of dates.

**62** Every day he made your table gleam.
**63** You raised your eyes to him and went to him:
**64** 'O my Ishullanu, let us taste of your strength,
**65** put out your hand and touch our vulva!'

**66** Ishullanu said to you:
**67** 'What do you want of me?
**68** Has my mother not baked? Have I not eaten,
**69** that I should now eat the bread of slander and curses?

**70** Does the reed-hut give protection in the cold?'
**71** When you heard what he said,
**72** you struck him and turned him into a frog.
**73** You left him to dwell in the middle of the garden.

**74** He can go neither upward nor downward.
**75** If you loved me, you would treat me
**76** just like them."

**77** When Ishtar heard this
**78** Ishtar was furious and went up to heaven.
**79** Ishtar went before her father, Anu;
**80** she went before her mother, Antum, and said:

**81** "My father, Gilgamesh has insulted me over and over!
**82** Gilgamesh has recounted my disgraceful behaviour,
**83** my disgraceful behaviour and my curses."

**84** Anu opened his mouth and spoke, saying to the princess Ishtar:
**85** "But was it not you who provoked King Gilgamesh?
**86** So Gilgamesh recounted your disgraceful behaviour,
**87** your disgraceful behaviour and your curses."

**88** Ishtar opened her mouth and spoke, saying to her father Anu:
**89** "Father, give me the Bull of Heaven,
**90** so I can kill Gilgamesh in his dwelling!
**91** If you do not give me the Bull of Heaven,
**92** I will knock down the Gates of the Netherworld,

**93** I will smash the doorposts, and leave the doors flat down,
**94** and will let the dead go up to eat the living!
**95** And the dead will outnumber the living!"

**96** Anu opened his mouth and spoke, saying to the princess Ishtar:
**97** "If I give you the Bull of Heaven,
**98** there will be seven years of empty husks in the land of Uruk.
**99** Have you gathered grain for the people?
**100** Have you made grasses grow for the animals?"

**101** Ishtar opened her mouth and spoke, saying to Anu:
**102** "I have heaped grain in the granaries for the people,
**103** I made grasses grow for the animals,
**104** in order that they might eat in the seven years of empty husks.
**105** I have gathered grain for the people,
**106** I have made grasses grow for the animals."

**107** [Gap in text]

**108** When Anu heard her words he placed the lead-rope
**109** of the Bull of Heaven in her hand.
**110** Ishtar led the Bull of Heaven down to the earth.

**111** When it reached the land of Uruk
**112** it climbed down to the River Euphrates—
**113** and at the snort of the Bull of Heaven a huge pit opened up,
**114** and a hundred young men of Uruk fell into it.

**115** At his second snort a huge pit opened up,
**116** and two hundred young men of Uruk fell into it.
**117** At his third snort a huge pit opened up,
**118** and Enkidu fell into it up to his waist.

**119** Then Enkidu jumped out and seized the Bull of Heaven by the horns.
**120** The Bull of Heaven foamed in his face,
**121** it brushed him with the thick of its tail.

**122** Enkidu opened his mouth and spoke, saying to Gilgamesh:
**123** "My friend, we boasted that we would leave
**124** enduring names behind us. Now
**125** thrust in your sword between the nape and the horns!"

**126** Enkidu stalked and hunted down the Bull of Heaven.
**127** He seized it by the thick of its tail
**128** and held it steady while Gilgamesh,
**129** like an expert butcher,
**130** boldly and surely drove his sword
**131** between the nape and the horns.

**132** After they had slain the Bull of Heaven,
**133** they tore out its heart and presented it before Shamash.
**134** They stepped back and prostrated before Shamash.
**135** The two brothers sat down together.

**136** Then Ishtar climbed onto the wall of Uruk-the-Sheepfold,
**137** she leaped onto the parapet and uttered a curse:
**138** "Woe to Gilgamesh, who has besmirched me,
**139** by killing the Bull of Heaven!"

**140** Enkidu heard the words of Ishtar,
**141** and he tore off the right thigh of the Bull of Heaven
**142** and tossed it in her face:
**143** "If I could reach you, what I'd do to you!
**144** I would drape his innards over your arms!"

**145** Ishtar assembled the women of lovely-Loss,
**146** the joy-Loss and the harlots,
**147** and over the right thigh of the Bull of Heaven she set up a wailing.

**148** But Gilgamesh called the craftsmen, the armorers,
**149** all of them. The artisans admired the thickness of the horns,
**150** each fashioned from thirty minas of lapis lazuli.
**151** Two fingers thick was their casing.
**152** Six kor of oil the capacity of the two
**153** he gave as anointing oil to his god, Lugalbanda.

**154** He carried the horns and hung them in the chamber
**155** of his family shrine.
**156** They washed their hands in the Euphrates,
**157** took each other by the hand,
**158** and went through the streets of Uruk.

**159** The people of Uruk assembled, gazing at them.
**160** Gilgamesh spoke to the maidservants of his palace:
**161** "Who is the finest among men?
**162** Who is the most glorious of fellows?"

**163** "Gilgamesh is the finest among men!
**164** Gilgamesh is the most glorious of fellows!"
**165** [Gap in text]

**166** Gilgamesh celebrated in his palace.
**167** The young men lay down on their night beds,
**168** and when also Enkidu lay down, a dream came to him.
**169** Enkidu rose up to relate the dream,
**170** saying to his friend:
**171** "My friend, why are the great gods in council?"
