---
title: "Life of Adam and Eve - Chapter 1"
scripture: "life-of-adam-and-eve"
chapter: 1
---

**1** When they were driven out from paradise, they made themselves a booth, and spent seven days mourning and lamenting in great grief.

**2** But after seven days, they began to be hungry and started to look for food to eat, and they found it not.

**3** Then Eve said to Adam: "My lord, I am hungry. Go, look for something for us to eat. Perhaps the Lord God will look upon us and pity us and recall us to the place in which we were before."

**4** And Adam arose and walked seven days over all that land, and found no food such as they used to have in paradise.

**5** And Eve said to Adam: "Wilt thou slay me? that I may die, and perchance God the Lord will bring thee into paradise, for on my account hast thou been driven thence."

**6** Adam answered: "Forbid it, Eve, that I should do such a thing. Rather let us arise and look for something for us to live on, that we fail not."

**7** And they walked about and searched for nine days, and they found none such as they were used to have in paradise, but found only what animals eat.

**8** And Adam said to Eve: "This hath the Lord provided for animals and brutes to eat; but we used to have angels' food. It is just and right that we lament before the sight of God who made us. Let us repent with a great penitence and perhaps the Lord will be gracious to us and will pity us and give us something to live on."

**9** And Eve said to Adam: "What is penitence? Tell me, what sort of penitence am I to do? Let us not put too great a labor on ourselves, which we cannot endure, and the Lord will not hear our prayers, and will turn away His countenance from us."

**10** Adam said to Eve: "Thou canst not do so much as I, but do only so much as thou hast strength for. I will spend forty days fasting, but do thou arise and go to the river Tigris and lift up a stone and stand on it in the water up to thy neck in the deep of the river. And let no speech proceed out of thy mouth, since we are unworthy to address the Lord, for our lips are unclean from the unlawful and forbidden tree."

**11** "And do thou stand in the water of the river thirty-seven days. But I will spend forty days in the water of Jordan, perchance the Lord God will take pity upon us."

**12** And Eve walked to the river Tigris and did as Adam had told her. Likewise, Adam walked to the river Jordan and stood upon a stone up to his neck in water.
