---
title: "Life of Adam and Eve - Chapter 3"
scripture: "life-of-adam-and-eve"
chapter: 3
---

**1** "And on thy account we were expelled from our dwellings into this world and hurled on the earth. And straightway we were overcome with grief, since we had been despoiled of so great glory."

**2** "And we were grieved when we saw thee in such joy and luxury. And with guile I cheated thy wife and caused thee to be expelled through her doing from thy joy and luxury, as I have been expelled from my glory."

**3** When Adam heard the devil say this, he cried out and wept and spake: "O Lord my God, my life is in thy hands. Banish this Adversary far from me, who seeketh to destroy my soul, and give me his glory which he himself hath lost."

**4** And at that moment, the devil vanished before him. But Adam endured in his penance, standing in the water of Jordan for forty days.

**5** And Eve said to Adam: "Live thou, my Lord, to thee life is granted, since thou hast committed neither the first nor the second error. But I have erred and been led astray, for I have not kept the commandment of God; and now banish me from the light of thy life."

**6** "I will go to the setting of the sun, and there will I be, until I die." And she began to walk towards the western parts, and to mourn bitterly and to weep loudly.

**7** And she made herself a booth, while she had in her womb offspring that had been begotten three months.

**8** And when the time of her bearing approached, she began to be distressed with pains, and she cried aloud to the Lord and said: "Pity me, O Lord, assist me." And she was not heard, and the mercy of God did not encircle her.

**9** And she said to herself: "Who shall tell my lord Adam? I implore you, ye luminaries of heaven, what time ye return to the east, bear a message to my lord Adam."

**10** But in that hour, Adam said: "The complaint of Eve hath come to me. Perhaps the serpent hath again attacked her." And he went and found her in great distress.

**11** And Eve said: "From the moment I saw thee, my lord, my grief-laden soul was refreshed. And now entreat the Lord God on my behalf to hearken unto thee and look upon me and free me from my awful pains."

**12** And Adam entreated the Lord for Eve. And behold, there came twelve angels and two virtues, standing on the right and on the left of Eve; and Michael was standing on the right, and he stroked her on the face and on the breast and said to Eve: "Blessed art thou, Eve, for Adam's sake. Since his prayers and intercessions are great, I have been sent that thou mayest receive our help. Rise up now, and prepare thee to bear."

**13** And she bore a son, and he was shining, and at once the babe rose up and ran and bore a blade of grass in his hands, and gave it to his mother, and his name was called Cain.
