---
title: "Life of Adam and Eve - Chapter 4"
scripture: "life-of-adam-and-eve"
chapter: 4
---

**1** And Adam carried Eve and the boy and led them to the east. And the Lord God sent divers seeds by Michael the archangel and gave to Adam and showed him how to work and till the ground, that they might have fruit by which they and all their generations might live.

**2** For thereafter Eve conceived and bare a son, whose name was Abel; and Cain and Abel used to stay together.

**3** And Eve said to Adam: "My lord, while I slept, I saw a vision, as it were the blood of our son Abel in the hand of Cain, who was gulping it down in his mouth. That is why I am full of sorrow."

**4** And Adam said: "Alas if Cain slew Abel. Yet let us separate them from each other and let us make for each of them separate dwellings."

**5** And they made Cain a husbandman, but Abel they made a shepherd; in order that in this wise they might be apart from each other.

**6** And thereafter, Cain slew Abel, but Adam was then one hundred and thirty years old, and Abel was slain when he was one hundred and twenty-two years old.

**7** And thereafter Adam knew Eve his wife and she bare a son and called his name Seth, and Adam said: "God hath raised up to us a righteous seed, in place of Abel, whom Cain slew."

**8** And after Adam had begotten Seth, he lived eight hundred years and begat thirty sons and thirty daughters; in all sixty-three children. And they were increased over the face of the earth in their nations.

**9** And Adam said to Seth: "Hear, my son Seth, that I may relate to thee what I heard and saw after your mother and I had been driven out of paradise."

**10** "When we were at prayer, there came to me Michael the archangel, a messenger of God. And I saw a chariot like the wind and its wheels were fiery and I was caught up into the Paradise of righteousness, and I saw the Lord sitting and His face was flaming fire that could not be endured."

**11** "And many thousands of angels were on the right and the left of that chariot. When I saw all this, I was confounded, and terror seized me and I bowed down before God with my face to the earth."

**12** "And God said to me: 'Behold thou diest, since thou hast transgressed the commandment of God, for thou didst hearken rather to the voice of thy wife, whom I gave into thy power, that she might hold to thee. Yet thou didst listen to her and didst pass by My words.'"
