---
title: "Hypostasis of the Archons - Chapter 1"
scripture: "hypostasis-of-archons"
chapter: 1
---

**1** On account of the reality of the authorities, inspired by the spirit of the father of truth, the great apostle, referring to the authorities of the darkness, told us that our contest is not against flesh and blood, rather, the authorities of the universe and the spirits of wickedness.

**2** I have sent this because you inquire about the reality of the authorities.

**3** Their chief is blind; because of his power and his ignorance and his arrogance he said, with his power, "It is I who am God; there is none apart from me."

**4** When he said this, he sinned against the entirety. And this speech got up to incorruptibility; then there was a voice that came forth from incorruptibility, saying, "You are mistaken, Samael" — which is, "god of the blind."

**5** His thoughts became blind. And having expelled his power — that is, the blasphemy he had spoken — he pursued it down to chaos and the abyss, at the instigation of Pistis Sophia.

**6** And she established each of his offspring in conformity with its power — after the pattern of the realms that are above, for by starting from the invisible world the visible world was invented.

**7** As incorruptibility looked down into the region of the waters, her image appeared in the waters; and the authorities of the darkness became enamored of her.

**8** But they could not lay hold of that image which had appeared to them in the waters, because of their weakness — since beings that merely possess a soul cannot lay hold of those that possess a spirit. For they were from below, while it was from above.

**9** This is the reason why incorruptibility looked down into the region: so that, by the father's will, she might bring the entirety into union with the light.

**10** The rulers laid plans and said, "Come, let us create a man that will be soil from the earth." They modeled their creature as one wholly of the earth.
