---
title: "Hypostasis of the Archons - Chapter 2"
scripture: "hypostasis-of-archons"
chapter: 2
---

**1** Now the rulers took counsel with one another and said, "Come, let us cause a deep sleep to fall upon Adam." And he slept. Now the deep sleep that they caused to fall upon him was ignorance. They opened his side like a living woman. And they built up his side with some flesh in place of her, and Adam came to be endowed only with soul.

**2** And the spirit-endowed woman came to him and spoke with him, saying, "Arise, Adam." And when he saw her, he said, "It is you who have given me life; you will be called 'mother of the living.' For it is she who is my mother. It is she who is the physician, and the woman, and she who has given birth."

**3** Then the authorities came up to their Adam. And when they saw his female counterpart speaking with him, they became agitated with great agitation; and they became enamored of her. They said to one another, "Come, let us sow our seed in her," and they pursued her. And she laughed at them for their witlessness, and their blindness; and in their clutches she became a tree, and left before them her shadowy reflection resembling herself.

**4** Then the female spiritual principle came in the snake, the instructor; and it taught them, saying, "What did he say to you? Was it, 'From every tree in the garden shall you eat; yet from the tree of recognizing good and evil do not eat'?"

**5** The carnal woman said, "Not only did he say 'Do not eat,' but even 'Do not touch it; for the day you eat from it, with death you are going to die.'"

**6** And the snake, the instructor, said, "With death you shall not die; for it was out of jealousy that he said this to you. Rather your eyes shall open and you shall come to be like gods, recognizing evil and good."

**7** And the female instructing principle was taken away from the snake, and she left it behind, merely a thing of the earth.

**8** And the carnal woman took from the tree and ate; and she gave to her husband as well as herself; and these beings that possessed only a soul ate. And their imperfection became apparent in their lack of knowledge; and they recognized that they were naked of the spiritual element, and took fig leaves and bound them upon their loins.

**9** Then the chief ruler came; and he said, "Adam! Where are you?" — for he did not understand what had happened.

**10** And Adam said, "I heard your voice and was afraid because I was naked; and I hid." The ruler said, "Why did you hide, unless it is because you have eaten from the tree from which alone I commanded you not to eat? You have eaten!"
