---
title: "Chandogya Upanishad Chapter 6"
scripture: "chandogya-upanishad"
chapter: 6
---

**1** There lived once Svetaketu Aruneya. His father said to him: "Svetaketu, go to school; for there is none belonging to our race, darling, who, not having studied, is, as it were, a Brahmana by birth only."

**2** Having begun his apprenticeship when he was twelve years of age, Svetaketu returned to his father, when he was twenty-four, having then studied all the Vedas, conceited, considering himself well-read, and stern.

**3** His father said to him: "Svetaketu, as you are so conceited, considering yourself so well-read, and so stern, my dear, have you ever asked for that instruction by which we hear what cannot be heard, by which we perceive what cannot be perceived, by which we know what cannot be known?"

**4** "What is that instruction, Sir?" he asked. The father replied: "My dear, as by one clod of clay all that is made of clay is known, the modification being only a name arising from speech whilst the truth is that all is clay;

**5** "And as, my dear, by one nugget of gold all that is made of gold is known, the modification being only a name arising from speech whilst the truth is that all is gold;

**6** "And as, my dear, by one pair of nail-scissors all that is made of iron is known, the modification being only a name arising from speech whilst the truth is that all is iron—thus, my dear, is that instruction."

**7** "Surely those venerable men did not know that. For if they had known it, why would they not have told it to me? Do you, Sir, therefore tell me that." "Be it so, my dear," the father replied.

**8** "In the beginning, my dear, there was that only which is, one only, without a second. Others say, in the beginning there was that only which is not, one only, without a second; and from that which is not, that which is was born."

**9** "But how could it be thus, my dear?" the father continued. "How could that which is, be born of that which is not? No, my dear, only that which is, was in the beginning, one only, without a second."

**10** "It thought, may I be many, may I grow forth. It sent forth fire. That fire thought, may I be many, may I grow forth. It sent forth water."

**11** "Water thought, may I be many, may I grow forth. It sent forth earth. Therefore whenever anybody anywhere is hot and perspires, water is produced on him from fire alone."

**12** "That Being thought, let me now enter those three beings with this living Self, and let me then reveal names and forms."

**13** "It thought, let me make each of these three tripartite. The deity, having entered those three beings with the living Self, revealed names and forms."

**14** "It made each of these tripartite; and how these three beings become each of them tripartite, that learn from me, my friend."

**15** "The red colour of burning fire is the colour of fire, the white colour of fire is the colour of water, the dark colour of fire is the colour of earth. Thus vanishes what we call fire, as being a mere modification, a name arising from speech, whilst the truth is that there are three colours."

**16** "The red colour of the sun is the colour of fire, the white of water, the dark of earth. Thus vanishes what we call the sun, as being a mere modification, a name arising from speech, whilst the truth is that there are three colours."

**17** "The food when eaten is disposed of in three ways. The grossest portion becomes the faeces, the middle portion flesh, the subtlest portion mind."

**18** "Water when drunk is disposed of in three ways. The grossest portion becomes the urine, the middle portion blood, the subtlest portion breath."

**19** "Fire when consumed is disposed of in three ways. The grossest portion becomes bone, the middle portion marrow, the subtlest portion speech."

**20** "Hence, my child, mind comes of food, breath comes of water, speech comes of fire." "Please, Sir, inform me still more," said the son. "Be it so, my child," the father replied.

**21** "That which is the subtile essence, in it all that exists has its self. It is the True. It is the Self, and thou, O Svetaketu, art it." "Please, Sir, inform me still more," said the son. "Be it so, my child," the father replied.

**22** "As the bees, my son, make honey by collecting the juices of distant trees, and reduce the juice into one form, and as these juices have no discrimination so as to say, 'I am the juice of this tree or that,' in the same manner, my son, all these creatures, when they have become merged in the True, know not that they are merged in the True."

**23** "Whatever these creatures are here, whether a lion, or a wolf, or a boar, or a worm, or a midge, or a gnat, or a mosquito, that they become again and again. That which is that subtile essence, in it all that exists has its self. It is the True. It is the Self, and thou, O Svetaketu, art it."

**24** "These rivers, my son, run, the eastern toward the east, the western toward the west. They go from sea to sea. They become indeed sea. And as there they know not 'I am this or that river,' in the same manner, my son, all these creatures, when they have come back from the True, know not that they have come back from the True."

**25** "That which is that subtile essence, in it all that exists has its self. It is the True. It is the Self, and thou, O Svetaketu, art it."

**26** "If some one were to strike at the root of this large tree here, it would bleed but live. If he were to strike at its stem, it would bleed but live. If he were to strike at its top, it would bleed but live. Pervaded by the living Self, that tree stands firm, drinking in its nourishment and rejoicing."

**27** "But if the life has left one of its branches, that branch withers; if it has left a second, that branch withers; if it has left a third, that branch withers. If it has left the whole tree, the whole tree withers. In exactly the same manner, my son, know this." Thus he spoke.

**28** "This body indeed withers and dies when the living Self has left it; the living Self dies not. That which is that subtile essence, in it all that exists has its self. It is the True. It is the Self, and thou, O Svetaketu, art it."

**29** "Fetch me from thence a fruit of the Nyagrodha tree." "Here is one, Sir." "Break it." "It is broken, Sir." "What do you see there?" "These seeds, almost infinitesimal." "Break one of them." "It is broken, Sir." "What do you see there?" "Not anything, Sir."

**30** The father said: "My son, that subtile essence which you do not perceive there, of that very essence this great Nyagrodha tree exists. Believe it, my son. That which is the subtile essence, in it all that exists has its self. It is the True. It is the Self, and thou, O Svetaketu, art it."

**31** "Place this salt in water, and then wait on me in the morning." The son did as he was commanded. The father said to him: "Bring me the salt which you placed in the water last night." The son having looked for it, found it not, for of course it was melted.

**32** The father said: "Taste it from the surface of the water. How is it?" The son replied: "It is salt." "Taste it from the middle. How is it?" "It is salt." "Taste it from the bottom. How is it?" "It is salt."

**33** The father said: "Throw it away and then wait on me." He did so; but the salt exists for ever. Then the father said: "Here also, in this body, forsooth, you do not perceive the True, my son; but there indeed it is."

**34** "That which is the subtile essence, in it all that exists has its self. It is the True. It is the Self, and thou, O Svetaketu, art it."
