---
title: "Enuma Elish Tablet 1"
scripture: "enuma-elish"
chapter: 1
---

**Tablet I**

**1** When on high the heaven had not been named,
**2** firm ground below had not been called by name,
**3** nothing but primordial Apsu, their begetter,
**4** and Mummu-Tiamat, she who bore them all,
**5** their waters commingling as a single body;

**6** no reed hut had been matted, no marsh land had appeared,
**7** when no gods whatever had been brought into being,
**8** uncalled by name, their destinies undetermined—
**9** then it was that the gods were formed within them.

**10** Lahmu and Lahamu were brought forth, by name they were called.
**11** Before they had grown in age and stature,
**12** Anshar and Kishar were formed, surpassing the others.
**13** They prolonged the days, added on the years.

**14** Anu was their heir, of his fathers the rival;
**15** yes, Anshar's firstborn, Anu, was his equal.
**16** Anu begot in his image Nudimmud.
**17** This Nudimmud was of his fathers the master;
**18** of broad wisdom, understanding, mighty in strength,
**19** mightier by far than his grandfather, Anshar.
**20** He had no rival among the gods, his brothers.

**21** The divine brothers banded together,
**22** they disturbed Tiamat as they surged back and forth,
**23** yes, they troubled the mood of Tiamat
**24** by their hilarity in the Abode of Heaven.

**25** Apsu could not lessen their clamour
**26** and Tiamat was speechless at their ways.
**27** Their doings were loathsome unto Apsu.
**28** Unsavoury were their ways; he was overbearing.

**29** Then Apsu, the begetter of the great gods,
**30** cried out, addressing Mummu, his vizier:
**31** "O Mummu, my vizier, who rejoices my spirit,
**32** come hither and let us go to Tiamat!"

**33** They went and sat down before Tiamat,
**34** exchanging counsel about the gods, their firstborn.
**35** Apsu, opening his mouth,
**36** said unto resplendent Tiamat:

**37** "Their ways are truly loathsome unto me.
**38** By day I find no relief, nor repose by night.
**39** I will destroy, I will wreck their ways,
**40** that quiet may be restored. Let us have rest!"

**41** As soon as Tiamat heard this,
**42** she was wroth and called out to her husband.
**43** She cried out aggrieved, as she raged all alone,
**44** injecting woe into her mood:

**45** "What? Should we destroy that which we have built?
**46** Their ways indeed are most troublesome, but let us attend kindly!"

**47** Then answered Mummu, giving counsel to Apsu;
**48** ill-wishing and ungracious was Mummu's advice:
**49** "Do destroy, my father, the mutinous ways.
**50** Then shall you have relief by day and rest by night!"

**51** When Apsu heard this, his face grew radiant
**52** because of the evil he planned against the gods, his sons.
**53** As for Mummu, by the neck he embraced him
**54** as that one sat down on his knees to kiss him.

**55** Now whatever they had plotted between them
**56** was repeated unto the gods, their firstborn.
**57** When the gods heard this, they were astir,
**58** then lapsed into silence and remained speechless.

**59** Surpassing in wisdom, accomplished, resourceful,
**60** Ea, the all-wise, saw through their scheme.
**61** A master design against it he devised and set up,
**62** made artful his spell against it, surpassing and holy.

**63** He recited it and made it subsist in the deep,
**64** as he poured sleep upon him. Sound asleep he lay.
**65** When he had made Apsu prone, drenched with sleep,
**66** Mummu, the adviser, was powerless to stir.

**67** He loosened his band, tore off his tiara,
**68** removed his halo and put it on himself.
**69** Having fettered Apsu, he slew him.
**70** Mummu he bound and left behind lock.

**71** Having thus upon Apsu established his dwelling,
**72** he laid hold on Mummu, holding him by the nose-rope.
**73** After Ea had vanquished and trodden down his foes,
**74** had secured his triumph over his enemies,

**75** in his sacred chamber in profound peace had rested,
**76** he named it "Apsu," for shrines he assigned it.
**77** In that same place his cult hut he founded.
**78** Ea and Damkina, his wife, dwelled there in splendour.

**79** In the chamber of fates, the abode of destinies,
**80** a god was engendered, most able and wisest of gods.
**81** In the heart of Apsu was Marduk created,
**82** in the heart of holy Apsu was Marduk created.

**83** He who begot him was Ea, his father;
**84** she who bore him was Damkina, his mother.
**85** The breast of goddesses he did suck.
**86** The nurse that nursed him filled him with awesomeness.

**87** Alluring was his figure, sparkling the lift of his eyes.
**88** Lordly was his gait, commanding from of old.
**89** When Ea saw him, the father who begot him,
**90** he exulted and glowed, his heart filled with gladness.

**91** He rendered him perfect and endowed him with a double godhead.
**92** Greatly exalted was he above them, exceeding throughout.
**93** Perfect were his members beyond comprehension,
**94** unsuited for understanding, difficult to perceive.

**95** Four were his eyes, four were his ears;
**96** when he moved his lips, fire blazed forth.
**97** Large were all four hearing organs,
**98** and the eyes, in like number, scanned all things.

**99** He was the loftiest of the gods, surpassing was his stature;
**100** his members were enormous, he was exceeding tall.
**101** "My little son, my little son!
**102** My son, the Sun! Sun of the heavens!"

**103** Clothed with the halo of ten gods, he was strong to the utmost,
**104** as their awesome flashes were heaped upon him.

**105** Anu brought forth and begot the fourfold wind,
**106** consigning to its power the leader of the host.
**107** He fashioned dust, he made the whirlwind carry it;
**108** he made a wave to disturb Tiamat.

**109** Disturbed was Tiamat, astir day and night.
**110** The gods, given no rest, suffer in the storm.
**111** Their hearts having plotted evil,
**112** to Tiamat, their mother, said:

**113** "When they slew Apsu, your consort,
**114** you did not aid him but sat still.
**115** When he created the dread fourfold wind
**116** your belly was stirred and so we can have no rest.

**117** Let Apsu, your consort, be in your mind
**118** and Mummu, who has been vanquished! You are left alone!
**119** You toss about without cease, you do not love us!
**120** Our eyes are pinched, we cannot sleep.

**121** Rise up, our mother, do battle!
**122** Avenge them and render them as the wind!"

**123** Tiamat was pleased, she approved of their words:
**124** "Let us make monsters, that we may do battle!"
**125** [Gap in text]

**126** Then joined issue Tiamat and the gods, the wise among the gods.
**127** They marched to battle, they drew close for combat.

**128** Mother Hubur, she who fashions all things,
**129** added matchless weapons, bore monster-serpents,
**130** sharp of tooth, unsparing of fang.
**131** With venom for blood she has filled their bodies.

**132** Roaring dragons she has clothed with terror,
**133** has crowned them with haloes, making them like gods,
**134** so that he who beholds them shall perish abjectly,
**135** and that, with their bodies reared up, none might turn them back.

**136** She set up the Viper, the Dragon, and the Sphinx,
**137** the Great-Lion, the Mad-Dog, and the Scorpion-Man,
**138** mighty lion-demons, the Dragon-Fly, the Centaur—
**139** bearing weapons that spare not, fearless in battle.

**140** Firm were her decrees, past withstanding were they.
**141** Withal eleven of this kind she brought forth.
**142** From among the gods, her firstborn, who formed her Assembly,
**143** she elevated Kingu, made him chief among them.

**144** The leading of the ranks, command of the Assembly,
**145** the raising of weapons for the encounter, advancing to combat,
**146** in battle the command-in-chief—
**147** these to his hand she entrusted as she seated him in the Council:

**148** "I have cast for you the spell, exalting you in the Assembly of the gods.
**149** To counsel all the gods I have given you full power.
**150** Truly, you are supreme, you are my only consort!
**151** Your utterance shall prevail over all the Anunnaki!"

**152** She gave him the Tablet of Destinies, fastened on his breast:
**153** "As for you, your command shall be unchangeable, your word shall endure!"
**154** As soon as Kingu was elevated, possessed of the rank of Anu,
**155** for the gods, his sons, they decreed the fate:
**156** "Your word shall make the fire subside,
**157** shall humble the 'Power-Weapon,' so potent in its sweep!"
