---
title: "Enuma Elish Tablet 7"
scripture: "enuma-elish"
chapter: 7
---

**Tablet VII**

[The final tablet enumerates the fifty names of Marduk, each with its explanation, confirming his supreme authority over all the gods.]

**1** Asari, bestower of planting, establisher of sowing,
**2** creator of grain and plants, who made green herbs to grow.

**3** Asarualim, who is honoured in the place of counsel, who excels in counsel,
**4** to whom the gods hope, not being possessed of fear.

**5** Asarualimnunna, the mighty one, the light of the father who begot him,
**6** who directs the decrees of Anu, Enlil, and Ea.
**7** He is their provider, who assigns their portions,
**8** whose horned cap is plentiful, multiplying produce.

**9** Tutu is he, who effects their restoration.
**10** Let him purify their shrines, that they may have rest.
**11** Let him devise the spell, that the gods may be at ease.
**12** Should they rise in anger, let him turn them back.

**13** Verily, he is supreme in the Assembly of the gods;
**14** no one among the gods is his equal.
**15** Tutu is Ziukkinna, life of the host of the gods,
**16** who established for the gods the holy heavens;

**17** who keeps a hold on their ways, determines their courses;
**18** he shall not be forgotten by the teeming multitudes.
**19** Let them remember his deeds, let them call on his name.

**20** Tutu as Ziku they shall praise, the third name.
**21** Let him establish holiness, that all may know their shrines.

**22** Tutu as Agaku, the sublime, may he renew their spirit,
**23** and let him be lord of the holy incantation, reviving the dead.
**24** May he have compassion on the vanquished gods,
**25** may he remove the yoke imposed on the gods, his enemies.

**26** For their sakes he created mankind,
**27** the merciful one, with whom it rests to grant life.
**28** May his deeds endure, may they never be forgotten
**29** in the mouth of the black-headed, whom his hands have created.

**30** Tutu as Tuku, the holy one, whose mouth shall utter their holy spell,
**31** who with his holy charm has uprooted all the evil ones.

**32** Shazu, who knows the heart of the gods, who examines the inside,
**33** from whom the evildoer cannot escape.
**34** He who set up the Assembly of the gods, who gladdens their hearts,
**35** who subdues the insubmissive, is their broad protection.

**36** Who directs justice, roots out crooked talk,
**37** who wrong and right in his place keeps apart.

**38** Shazu as Zisi may he silence the aggressor,
**39** may he banish consternation from the bodies of the gods.

**40** Shazu as Suhrim, who roots out all enemies with his weapon,
**41** who frustrates their plans, scatters them to the winds,
**42** who blots out all the wicked ones who tremble before him—
**43** let the gods exult, let them—

**44** Shazu as Suhgurim, who holds the oversight over all enemies,
**45** who uncovers all secrets from their hiding places,
**46** who snatched the weapon from the malevolent—
**47** who upholds order in heaven and earth, securing justice.

**48** Shazu as Zahrim, lord of the living,
**49** who knows all hearts, perceives all spirits,
**50** from whom the fleeing god cannot escape.

**51** Shazu as Zahgurim, who destroys all adversaries in battle.
**52** He is god of the storm who brings justice.

**53** Enbilulu, the lord who makes them flourish, is he;
**54** the mighty one, who named them, who instituted offerings,
**55** who ever regulates for the land the grazing and watering places,
**56** who opened the wells and apportioned the waters of abundance.

**57** Enbilulu as Epadun, lord of plain and highland,
**58** canal-controller of heaven and earth.
**59** Enbilulu as Enbilulugugal,
**60** the lord who heaps up abundance, who provides riches,
**61** who maintains the farmland with water.

**62** Enbilulu as Hegal, who rains abundance over the wide earth,
**63** who provides vegetation in plenty.

**64** Sirsir, who heaped up a mountain over her, Tiamat,
**65** who with his weapon carried off the corpse of Tiamat.
**66** He is the shepherd of the land and its people.

**67** Sirsir as Malah, who—
**68** Tiamat is his vessel and he the rider.

**69** Gil, who stores up grain in massed heaps,
**70** who brings forth barley and millet, furnishes the seed of the land.

**71** Gilma, who made lasting the lofty abode of the gods,
**72** the creator of permanence, who holds together—

**73** Agilma, the exalted one, who tears off the crown,
**74** who creates the clouds above the waters, making enduring above.

**75** Zulum, who designates the fields for the gods and divides the produce,
**76** who grants portions and food-offerings, tends the shrines.

**77** Mummu, creator of heaven and earth, who directs—
**78** the god who sanctifies heaven and earth is he, a second Tiamat.

**79** Gishnumunab, creator of all people, who made the world regions,
**80** destroyer of the gods of Tiamat; who made men out of their substance.

**81** Lugalabdubur, the king who frustrated the work of Tiamat,
**82** rooted out her weapons, whose foundation is firm.

**83** Pagalguenna, the foremost of all the lords, whose strength is outstanding,
**84** who is pre-eminent among the gods his brothers, lord of them all.

**85** Lugaldurmah, the king, bond of the gods, lord of the Durmah,
**86** who is pre-eminent in the abode of the gods, most exalted of the gods.

**87** Aranunna, counsellor of Ea, creator of the gods, his fathers,
**88** whose princely ways no god whatever can equal.

**89** Dumuduku, whose pure dwelling is renewed in Duku;
**90** Dumuduku, without whom Lugalkuduga makes no decision.

**91** Lugallanna, the king whose strength is outstanding among the gods,
**92** the lord, strength of Anu, who became supreme at the call of Anshar.

**93** Lugalugga, who carried off all of them amidst the struggle,
**94** who all wisdom encompasses, broad in perception.

**95** Irkingu, who carried off Kingu in the thick of the battle,
**96** who conveys guidance for all, establishes rulership.

**97** Kinma, who directs all the gods, the giver of counsel,
**98** at whose name the gods quake in fear, as at the storm.

**99** Esiskur shall sit aloft in the house of prayer;
**100** may the gods bring their presents before him,
**101** that from him they may receive their assignments.

**102** None can without him create artful works.
**103** Four black-headed ones are among his creatures;
**104** aside from him no god knows the answer as to their days.

**105** Gibil, who maintains the sharp point of the weapon,
**106** who creates artful works in the battle with Tiamat;
**107** who has broad wisdom, is accomplished in insight,
**108** whose mind is so vast that the gods, all of them, cannot fathom it.

**109** Addu be his name, the whole sky may he cover.
**110** May his beneficent roar ever hover over the earth;
**111** may he, as Mummu, diminish the clouds;
**112** below, for the people may he furnish sustenance.

**113** Asharu, who, as is his name, guided the gods of destiny;
**114** of all the gods he is truly in charge.

**115** Nebiru shall hold the crossings of heaven and earth;
**116** those who failed of crossing above and below,
**117** ever of him shall inquire.
**118** Nebiru is the star which in the skies is brilliant.

**119** Truly, he holds the central position, to him they shall bow down:
**120** "He who the midst of the Sea restlessly crosses,
**121** let 'Crossing' be his name, who controls its midst.
**122** May they uphold the course of the stars of heaven;
**123** may he shepherd all the gods like sheep.

**124** May he vanquish Tiamat; may her life be strait and short!
**125** Into the future of mankind, when days have grown old,
**126** may she recede without cease and stay away forever."

**127** Because he created the spaces and fashioned the firm ground,
**128** father Enlil called his name 'Lord of the Lands.'

**129** When all the names the Igigi had pronounced,
**130** Ea heard and his spirit rejoiced:
**131** "He whose names his fathers have glorified,
**132** he is indeed even as I; his name shall be Ea.

**133** All my combined rites he shall administer;
**134** all my instructions he shall carry out!"

**135** With the title "Fifty" the great gods
**136** proclaimed him whose names are fifty and made his way supreme.

**137** Let them be kept in mind and let the first man explain them.
**138** Let the wise and the knowing discuss them together.
**139** Let the father recite them and impart to the son.
**140** Let the ear of shepherd and herdsman be opened.

**141** Let him rejoice in Marduk, the Enlil of the gods,
**142** that his land may be fertile and that he himself may prosper.
**143** His word stands firm, his command is unalterable;
**144** the utterance of his mouth no god shall change.

**145** When he looks in anger, he does not turn his neck;
**146** when he is furious, no god can withstand him.
**147** Vast is his mind, broad his sympathy;
**148** sinner and transgressor will be confounded before him.

**149** The teaching which the leader has voiced in his presence,
**150** let it not be altered or annulled.
**151** The place of his worship none has established,
**152** his name pronounced shall endure in the land.

**153** The record of this song in praise of Marduk,
**154** who vanquished Tiamat and achieved the kingship.
