---
title: "Kena Upanishad - Chapter 3"
scripture: "kena-upanishad"
chapter: 3
---

**1** Brahman obtained the victory for the gods. The gods became elated by the victory of Brahman, and they thought, "This victory is ours only, this greatness is ours only."

**2** Brahman perceived this and appeared before them. But they did not know It, and said, "What spirit is this?"

**3** They said to Agni, "O Jatavedas, find out what this spirit is." He said, "Yes."

**4** He ran toward It. Brahman asked him, "Who art thou?" He replied, "I am Agni, I am Jatavedas."

**5** Brahman said, "What power is in thee?" Agni replied, "I can burn all whatever is on earth."

**6** Brahman placed a straw before him, saying, "Burn this." He went toward it with all his might, but could not burn it. Then he returned from there and said, "I could not find out what this spirit is."

**7** Then they said to Vayu, "O Vayu, find out what this spirit is." He said, "Yes."

**8** He ran toward It. Brahman asked him, "Who art thou?" He replied, "I am Vayu, I am Matarisvan."

**9** Brahman said, "What power is in thee?" Vayu replied, "I can blow away all whatever is on earth."

**10** Brahman placed a straw before him, saying, "Blow it away." He went toward it with all his might, but could not blow it away. Then he returned from there and said, "I could not find out what this spirit is."

**11** Then they said to Indra, "O Maghavan, find out what this spirit is." He said, "Yes." He ran toward It, but It disappeared from before him.

**12** Then in the same space he came toward a woman, highly adorned: it was Uma, the daughter of Himavat. He said to her, "What is this spirit?"
