---
title: "Zhuangzi - Chapter 1"
scripture: "zhuangzi"
chapter: 1
---

**1** In the Northern Ocean there is a fish, the name of which is Kun -- I do not know how many li in size. It changes into a bird with the name of Peng, the back of which is also I do not know how many li in extent. When this bird rouses itself and flies, its wings are like clouds all round the sky. When the sea is moved so as to bear it along, it prepares to remove to the Southern Ocean. The Southern Ocean is the Pool of Heaven.

**2** There is the record of the wonders of Qi Xie. In it we read: 'When the Peng is removing to the Southern Ocean it flaps its wings on the water for 3000 li. Then it ascends on a whirlwind 90,000 li, and it rests only at the end of six months.' We have the semblance of horses galloping, of ## dust flying, and of the breath of living creatures blown against one another. Is the azure of the sky its real colour? Or is it occasioned by its distance and illimitable extent? When the Peng looks down, the same azure meets its view.

**3** Now, when water is not deep, it has not power to float large boats. Pour a cup of water into an indentation in the ground, and a moustard-seed will be your boat; place a cup in it, and it will be grounded, the water being shallow and the boat large. So it is with the relation of wind to the wings of the great bird. When that bird ascends to the height of 90,000 li, the wind is all beneath it. Then with that wind under its wings, and the blue sky and white clouds above, and no obstacle in the way, it starts for the south.

**4** A cicada and a little dove laugh at it, saying, 'We make an effort and fly towards an elm or sapanwood tree; and sometimes before we reach it, we can do no more but drop to the ground. Of what use is it for this creature to rise 90,000 li, and make for the South?' He who goes to the grassy suburbs, returning to the third meal from his absence, will have his belly as full as when he set out; he who goes to a distance of 100 li, will have to pound his grain where he stops for the night; he who goes a thousand li, will have to carry with him provisions for three months. What should these two small creatures know about the matter?

**5** The knowledge of that which is small does not reach to that which is great; the experience of a few years does not reach to that of many. How do we know that it is so? The mushroom of a morning does not know what takes place between the beginning and end of a month; the short-lived cicada does not know what takes place between the spring and autumn. These are instances of a short term of life.

**6** In the south of Chu there is the tree called Ming-ling, whose spring is 500 years, and whose autumn is 500 years. In high antiquity there was that called Da-chun, whose spring was 8000 years, and whose autumn was the same. And Peng Zu is the one man renowned to the present day for his length of life: if all men were to match him, would they not be miserable?

**7** The questions put by Tang to Ji were of a similar nature: 'In the bare and barren north, there is the dark and vast ocean, the Pool of Heaven. In it there is a fish, several thousand li in breadth, while no one knows its length. Its name is the Kun. There is also a bird named the Peng; its back is like the Tai mountain, while its wings are like clouds all round the sky. On a whirlwind it mounts upwards as on the whorls of a ram's horn for 90,000 li, till, far removed from the cloudy vapours, it bears on its back the blue sky, and then it shapes its course for the South, and proceeds to the ocean there.'

**8** A quail by the side of a marsh laughs at it, and says, 'Where is it going to? I spring up with a bound, and come down again when I have reached but a few fathoms, and then fly about among the brushwood and bushes; and this is the perfection of flying. Where is that creature going to?' This shows the difference between the small and the great.

**9** Thus it is that men, whose wisdom is sufficient for the duties of some one office, or whose conduct will secure harmony in some one district, or whose virtue is befitting a ruler so that they could efficiently govern some one state, are sure to look on themselves in this manner. And Song Rong Zi would have smiled and laughed at them. Though the whole world should have praised him, he would not for that have stimulated himself to greater endeavour, and though the whole world should have condemned him, he would not have exercised any more repression of his course. He had determined the boundary between the internal and the external, and discriminated between the honour and the disgrace; but he went no further.

**10** As to Lie Zi, he rode on the wind and pursued his way, with an admirable indifference to all external things, returning, however, after fifteen days to his place. In regard to the things that contribute to happiness, he was free from all endeavours to obtain them; but though he had no occasion to walk, there was still something for which he had to wait. But suppose one who mounts on the ether of heaven and earth in its normal operation, and drives along the six elemental energies of the changing seasons, thus enjoying himself in the illimitable -- what has he to wait for? Therefore it is said, 'The Perfect man has no self; the Spirit-like man, none of merit; the Sagely-minded man, none of fame.'

**11** Yao, wishing to resign the throne to Xu You, said, 'When the sun and moon have come forth, if the torches have not been put out, would it not be difficult for them to give light? When the seasonal rains are coming down, if we still keep watering the ground, will not our labour be lost for all the good it will do? Do you, Master, stand forth as sovereign, and the kingdom will be well governed. If I still preside over it, I must look on myself as vainly filling the place. I beg to resign the throne to you.'

**12** Xu You said, 'You govern the kingdom, and it is well governed. If I were to take your place, should I do so for the sake of the name? But the name is but the shadow of the reality. Should I do so for the sake of the reality? But the tailorbird builds its nest in the deep forest, and only uses one branch; the tapir drinks from the He, and only fills its belly. Return and rest in being ruler. I have no use for the kingdom! Though the cook were not attending to his kitchen, the representative of the dead and the officer of prayer would not go over the cups and stands and do his work for him.'

**13** Jian Wu said to Lian Shu, 'I heard Jie Yu talking; his words were great, but had nothing corresponding to them in reality; once gone, they could not be brought back. I was frightened by them; they were like the Milky Way which cannot be traced to its beginning or end. They had no connexion with one another, and were not akin to the experiences of men.'

**14** 'What were his words?' asked Lian Shu, and the other replied, 'He said that on the hill of Gu-she there dwelt a Spirit-like man whose flesh was smooth as ice and white as snow; that his manner was elegant and delicate as that of a virgin; that he did not eat any of the five grains, but inhaled the wind and drank the dew; that he mounted on the clouds, drove along the flying dragons, rambling and enjoying himself beyond the four seas; that by the concentration of his spirit-like powers he could save men from disease and pestilence, and secure every year a plentiful harvest.' Lian Shu said, 'So it is. The blind have no perception of the beauty of elegant figures, nor the deaf of the sound of bells and drums. But is it only the bodily senses of which blindness and deafness can be predicated? There is also a similar defect in the intelligence; and of this your words about Jie Yu furnish an illustration.'

**15** Hui Zi said to Zhuang Zi, 'The king of Wei gave me the seed of a large gourd. I planted it, and the fruit, when fully grown, could contain five bushels of anything. I used it to contain water, but it was so heavy that I could not lift it by myself. I cut it in two to make ladles; but each of them was too wide and flat for such a purpose. It was not that the gourd was not admirably large, but I considered it useless, and so I broke it in pieces.'

**16** Zhuang Zi replied, 'You were indeed stupid, my master, in the use of what was large. There was a man of Song who was skilful at making a salve which kept the hands from getting chapped; and his family for generations had made the bleaching of cocoon-silk their business. A stranger heard of it, and proposed to buy the art of the preparation for a hundred ounces of silver. The kindred all came together, and considered the proposal. "We have," said they, "been bleaching cocoon-silk for generations, and have only gained a little money. Now in one morning we can sell to this man our art for a hundred ounces -- let him have it." The stranger accordingly got it and went away with it to give counsel to the king of Wu, who was then engaged in hostilities with the state of Yue. The king gave him the command of his fleet, and in the winter he had an engagement with that of Yue, on which he inflicted a great defeat, and was invested with a portion of territory taken from Yue. The keeping of the hands from getting chapped was the same in both cases; but in the one case it led to the investiture of a territory, and in the other it had only enabled its owners to continue their bleaching. The difference of result was owing to the different use made of the art. Now you, Sir, had a gourd large enough to hold five bushels; why did you not think of making it into a great bottle-gourd, by means of which you could have floated over rivers and lakes, instead of giving yourself the sorrow of finding that it was useless for holding anything? Your mind, my master, would seem to have been closed against all intelligence!'

**17** Hui Zi said to Zhuang Zi, 'I have a large tree, which men call the Ailanthus. Its trunk is so irregular and knotty that it cannot be measured out for planks; its branches are so twisted and contorted that they cannot be laid out by the disc and square. Though standing by the roadside, a builder would not turn his head to look at it. Now your words, Sir, are great, but of no use -- all agree in putting them away from them.'

**18** Zhuang Zi replied, 'Have you never seen a wildcat or a weasel? There it lies, crouching and low, till the wanderer approaches; east and west it leaps about, avoiding neither what is high nor what is low, till it is caught in a trap, or dies in a net. Again there is the Yak, so large that it is like a cloud hanging in the sky. It is large indeed, but it cannot catch mice. You, Sir, have a large tree and are troubled because it is of no use -- why do you not plant it in a tract where there is nothing else, or in a wide and barren wild? There you might saunter idly by its side, or in the enjoyment of untroubled ease sleep beneath it. Neither bill nor axe would shorten its existence; there would be nothing to injure it. What is there in its uselessness to cause you distress?'
