---
title: "Kitab-i-Aqdas - Chapter 3"
scripture: "kitab-i-aqdas"
chapter: 3
---

**1** It hath been ordained that every believer in God, the Lord of Judgement, shall, each day, having washed his hands and then his face, seat himself and, turning unto God, repeat "Allah-u-Abha" ninety-five times.

**2** Such was the decree of the Maker of the Heavens when, with majesty and power, He established Himself upon the thrones of His Names.

**3** Perform ye likewise ablutions for the obligatory prayer; thus hath it been commanded in the Book of God, the Lord of all mankind.

**4** It hath been decreed by God that marriage is to give rise to the emergence of new generations. For this reason it hath been enjoined in the Book that ye must wed.

**5** Beware that ye take not unto yourselves more wives than two. Whoso contenteth himself with a single partner from among the maidservants of God, both he and she shall live in tranquillity.

**6** And he who would take into his service a maid may do so with propriety. Such is the ordinance which, in truth and justice, hath been recorded by the Pen of Revelation.

**7** Enter into wedlock, O people, that ye may bring forth one who will make mention of Me amid My servants. This is My bidding unto you; hold fast to it as an assistance to yourselves.

**8** O people of the world! Follow not the promptings of the self, for it summoneth insistently to wickedness and lust; follow, rather, Him Who is the Possessor of all created things, Who biddeth you to show forth piety, and manifest the fear of God.

**9** He, verily, is independent of all His creatures. Take heed not to stir up mischief in the land after it hath been set in order. Whoso acteth in this way is not of Us, and We are quit of him.

**10** Such is the commandment which hath, through the power of truth, been made manifest from the heaven of Revelation.

**11** It hath been laid down in the Bayan that marriage is dependent upon the consent of both parties. Desiring to establish love, unity and harmony amidst Our servants, We have conditioned it, once the couple's wish is known, upon the permission of their parents.

**12** The Lord hath prohibited the practice to which ye formerly had recourse when thrice ye had divorced a woman. This He hath done as a favour on His part, that ye may be accounted among the thankful.

**13** He who hath divorced his wife may choose, upon the passing of each month, to remarry her when there is mutual affection and consent, so long as she hath not taken another husband.

**14** Should she have taken another husband, then, by this other union, the separation is confirmed and the matter is concluded unless, clearly, her circumstances change. Thus hath the decree been inscribed with majesty in this glorious Tablet by Him Who is the Dayspring of Beauty.

**15** If resentment or antipathy arise between husband and wife, he is not to divorce her but to be patient throughout the course of one whole year, that perchance the fragrance of affection may be renewed between them.

**16** If, upon completion of this period, their love hath not returned, it is permissible for divorce to take place. God's wisdom, verily, hath encompassed all things. The Lord hath prohibited, in a Tablet inscribed by the Pen of His command, the practice to which ye had formerly had recourse.

**17** Thus hath His ordinance been set in order, that haply the peoples of the earth may be guided aright.
