---
title: "Nehemiah - Chapter 7"
scripture: "nehemiah"
chapter: 7
---

**1** Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed,

**2** That I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of the palace, charge over Jerusalem: for he was a faithful man, and feared God above many.

**3** And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun be hot; and while they stand by, let them shut the doors, and bar them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one in his watch, and every one to be over against his house.

**4** Now the city was large and great: but the people were few therein, and the houses were not builded.

**5** And my God put into mine heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy. And I found a register of the genealogy of them which came up at the first, and found written therein,

**6** These are the children of the province, that went up out of the captivity, of those that had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away, and came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, every one unto his city;

**7** Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number, I say, of the men of the people of Israel was this;

**8** The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy and two.

**9** The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two.

**10** The children of Arah, six hundred fifty and two.

**66** The whole congregation together was forty and two thousand three hundred and threescore,

**67** Beside their manservants and their maidservants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and they had two hundred forty and five singing men and singing women.

**68** Their horses, seven hundred thirty and six: their mules, two hundred forty and five:

**69** Their camels, four hundred thirty and five: six thousand seven hundred and twenty asses.

**70** And some of the chief of the fathers gave unto the work. The Tirshatha gave to the treasure a thousand drams of gold, fifty basons, five hundred and thirty priests' garments.

**71** And some of the chief of the fathers gave to the treasure of the work twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pound of silver.

**72** And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand pound of silver, and threescore and seven priests' garments.

**73** So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinims, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities; and when the seventh month came, the children of Israel were in their cities.
