---
title: "War Scroll Section 1"
scripture: "war-scroll"
chapter: 1
---

**1:1** For the Instructor. The Rule of War on the unleashing of the attack of the sons of light against the company of the sons of darkness, the army of Belial: against the band of Edom, Moab, and the sons of Ammon.

**1:2** And against the army of the sons of the East and the Philistines, and against the bands of the Kittim of Asshur and their allies the ungodly of the Covenant.

**1:4** The sons of Levi, Judah, and Benjamin, the exiles in the desert, shall battle against them in all their bands when the exiled sons of light return from the Desert of the Peoples to camp in the Desert of Jerusalem.

**1:6** And after the battle they shall go up from there against the King of the Kittim in Egypt. And in his time he shall go forth with great wrath to wage war against the kings of the north, that his fury may destroy and cut off the horn of Israel.

**1:9** This shall be a time of salvation for the people of God, an age of dominion for all the members of His company, and of everlasting destruction for all the company of Belial.

**1:10** There shall be great panic among the sons of Japheth; Assyria shall fall with none to come to her help, and the dominion of the Kittim shall come to an end and iniquity shall be vanquished, leaving no remnant.

**1:12** There shall be no escape for all the Sons of Darkness. And the sons of righteousness shall shine over all the ends of the earth; they shall go on shining until all the seasons of darkness are consumed and, at the season appointed by God, His exalted greatness shall shine eternally.

**1:14** On the day when the Kittim fall, there shall be battle and terrible carnage before the God of Israel, for that shall be the day appointed from ancient times for the battle of destruction of the sons of darkness.
