---
title: "Psalms of Solomon - Chapter 15"
scripture: "psalms-of-solomon"
chapter: 15
---

**1** When I was in distress I called upon the name of the Lord, I hoped for the help of the God of Jacob and was saved; for the hope and refuge of the poor art thou, O God.

**2** For who, O God, is strong except to give thee thanks? And wherein is a man powerful except in giving thanks to thy name?

**3** A new psalm with song in gladness of heart, the fruit of the lips with the well-tuned instrument of the tongue, the firstfruits of the lips from a pious and righteous heart --

**4** He that offereth these things shall never be shaken by evil; the flame of fire and the wrath against the unrighteous shall not touch him,

**5** When it goeth forth from the face of the Lord against sinners, to destroy all the substance of sinners;

**6** For the mark of God is upon the righteous that they may be saved.

**7** Famine and sword and pestilence shall be far from the righteous, for they shall flee away from the pious as men pursued in war;

**8** But they shall pursue sinners and overtake them, and they that do lawlessness shall not escape the judgment of God;

**9** As by enemies experienced in war shall they be overtaken, for the mark of destruction is upon their forehead.

**10** And the inheritance of sinners is destruction and darkness, and their iniquities shall pursue them unto Sheol beneath.

**11** Their inheritance shall not be found of their children, for sins shall lay waste the houses of sinners.

**12** And sinners shall perish for ever in the day of the Lord's judgment, when God visiteth the earth with his judgment.

**13** But they that fear the Lord shall find mercy therein, and shall live by the compassion of their God; but sinners shall perish for ever.
