---
title: "Psalms of Solomon - Chapter 16"
scripture: "psalms-of-solomon"
chapter: 16
---

**1** When my soul slumbered, being afar from the Lord, I had all but slipped down to the pit, when I was far from God.

**2** My soul had been well-nigh poured out unto death, I had been near to the gates of Sheol with the sinner.

**3** When my soul departed from the Lord God of Israel -- had not the Lord helped me with his everlasting mercy,

**4** He pricked me, as a horse is pricked, to keep me to him that helpeth me; my saviour and helper at all times saved me.

**5** I will give thanks unto thee, O God, for thou hast helped me to my salvation; and hast not counted me with the sinners to my destruction.

**6** Remove not thy mercy from me, O God, nor thy memorial from my heart until I die.

**7** Rule me, O God, keeping me back from wicked sin, and from every wicked woman that causeth the simple to stumble.

**8** And let not the beauty of a lawless woman beguile me, nor any one that is subject to unprofitable sin.

**9** Establish the works of my hands before thee, and preserve my goings in the remembrance of thee.

**10** Protect my tongue and my lips with words of truth; anger and unreasoning wrath put far from me.

**11** Murmuring and impatience in affliction remove far from me, when, if I sin, thou chastenest me that I may return unto thee.

**12** But with goodwill and cheerfulness support my soul; when thou strengthenest my soul, what is given to me will be sufficient for me.

**13** For if thou givest not strength, who can endure chastisement with poverty?

**14** When a man is tried by means of his corrupt body, thy testing of him is in his flesh and in the affliction of poverty.

**15** If the righteous endureth in all these trials, he shall receive mercy from the Lord.
