---
title: "Psalms of Solomon - Chapter 17"
scripture: "psalms-of-solomon"
chapter: 17
---

**1** O Lord, thou art our King for ever and ever, for in thee, O God, doth our soul glory.

**2** How long are the days of man's life upon the earth? As are his days, so is his hope set upon him.

**3** But we hope in God, our deliverer; for the might of our God is for ever with mercy, and the kingdom of our God is for ever over the nations in judgment.

**4** Thou, O Lord, didst choose David to be king over Israel, and swaredst to him touching his seed that never should his kingdom fail before thee.

**5** But, for our sins, sinners rose up against us; they assailed us and thrust us out; what thou hadst not promised to them, they took away from us with violence.

**6** They in no wise glorified thy honourable name; they set a worldly monarchy in place of that which was their excellency; they laid waste the throne of David in tumultuous arrogance.

**7** But thou, O God, didst cast them down, and remove their seed from the earth, in that there rose up against them a man that was alien to our race.

**8** According to their sins didst thou recompense them, O God; so that it befell them according to their deeds.

**9** God showed them no pity; he searched out their seed, and let not one of them go free.

**10** Faithful is the Lord in all his judgments which he doeth upon the earth.

**11** Behold, O Lord, and raise up unto them their king, the son of David, at the time in the which thou seest, O God, that he may reign over Israel thy servant.

**12** And gird him with strength, that he may shatter unrighteous rulers, and that he may purge Jerusalem from nations that trample her down to destruction.

**13** Wisely, righteously shall he thrust out sinners from the inheritance; he shall destroy the pride of the sinner as a potter's vessel.

**14** With a rod of iron he shall break in pieces all their substance, he shall destroy the godless nations with the word of his mouth;

**15** At his rebuke nations shall flee before him, and he shall reprove sinners for the thoughts of their heart.
