---
title: "Psalms of Solomon - Chapter 18"
scripture: "psalms-of-solomon"
chapter: 18
---

**1** Lord, thy mercy is over the works of thy hands for ever; thy goodness is over Israel with a rich gift.

**2** Thine eyes look upon them, so that none of them suffereth want; thine ears listen to the hopeful prayer of the poor.

**3** Thy compassionate judgments are over the whole world, and thy love is towards the seed of Abraham, the children of Israel.

**4** Thy chastisement is upon us as upon a firstborn, an only son, to turn back the obedient soul from folly that is wrought in ignorance.

**5** May God cleanse Israel against the day of mercy and blessing, against the day of choice when he bringeth back his anointed.

**6** Blessed shall they be that shall be in those days, in that they shall see the goodness of the Lord which he shall perform for the generation that is to come,

**7** Under the rod of chastening of the Lord's anointed in the fear of his God, in the spirit of wisdom and righteousness and strength;

**8** That he may direct every man in the works of righteousness by the fear of God, that he may establish them all before the Lord,

**9** A good generation living in the fear of God in the days of mercy. Selah.

**10** Great is our God and glorious, dwelling in the highest. He hath established the luminaries in their courses, in their seasons, from day to day, and they deviate not.

**11** Their course every day is under the direction of God, from the day in which God created them and for evermore.

**12** And they have not departed from their course since the day in which he created them; since the generations of old they have not departed from their paths, unless it were when God commanded them by the command of his servants.
