---
title: "Psalms of Solomon Section 9"
scripture: "psalms-of-solomon"
chapter: 9
---

**1** When Israel was led away captive into a foreign land, when they fell away from the Lord who redeemed them, they were cast away from the inheritance which the Lord had given them.

**2** Among every nation were the dispersed of Israel according to the word of God, that Thou mightest be justified, O God, in Thy righteousness by reason of our transgressions.

**3** For Thou art a just Judge over all the peoples of the earth. For from Thy knowledge none that does unjustly is hidden, and the righteous deeds of Thy pious ones are before Thee, O Lord; where, then, can a man hide himself from Thy knowledge, O God?

**4** Our works are subject to our own choice and power, to do right or wrong in the works of our hands; and in Thy righteousness Thou visitest the sons of men.

**5** He that does righteousness lays up life for himself with the Lord; and he that does wrongly forfeits his own life to destruction.

**6** For the judgments of the Lord are given in righteousness to every man and his house.

**7** To whom art Thou good, O God, except to them that call upon the Lord? He cleanses from sins a soul that makes confession, that makes acknowledgment; for shame is upon us and upon our faces on account of all these things.

**8** And to whom does He forgive sins, except to them that have sinned? Thou blessest the righteous, and dost not reprove them for their sins. And Thy goodness is upon them that sin, when they repent.
