---
title: "Jami at-Tirmidhi - Chapter 3"
scripture: "hadith-tirmidhi"
chapter: 3
---

**1** Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Messenger of Allah, peace be upon him, said: "Whoever relieves a believer from a distress of this world, Allah will relieve him of a distress on the Day of Resurrection."

**2** Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Messenger of Allah, peace be upon him, said: "He who conceals the faults of a Muslim, Allah will conceal his faults in this world and in the Hereafter. Allah will aid a servant so long as the servant aids his brother."

**3** Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Messenger of Allah, peace be upon him, said: "Every joint of a person must perform a charity each day the sun rises. To judge justly between two people is a charity. To help someone with his mount is a charity. A good word is a charity. Every step taken to the prayer is a charity. Removing harm from the road is a charity."

**4** Narrated Anas: The Messenger of Allah, peace be upon him, said: "None of you truly believes until he loves for his brother what he loves for himself."

**5** Narrated Abu Dharr: The Messenger of Allah, peace be upon him, said: "Your smiling in the face of your brother is charity. Your commanding good and forbidding evil is charity. Your guiding a person who is lost is charity. Your removing stones, thorns, and bones from the road is charity. Your pouring from your bucket into the bucket of your brother is charity."

**6** Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Messenger of Allah, peace be upon him, said: "Whoever removes a worldly hardship from a believer, Allah will remove from him one of the hardships of the Day of Resurrection."

**7** Narrated Anas: The Messenger of Allah, peace be upon him, said: "Help your brother whether he is an oppressor or is oppressed." A man said: "O Messenger of Allah, I can help him when he is oppressed, but how can I help him when he is the oppressor?" He said: "By preventing him from oppressing. That is how you help him."

**8** Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Messenger of Allah, peace be upon him, said: "A Muslim is the brother of a Muslim. He does not wrong him, he does not forsake him, he does not lie to him, and he does not despise him."
